Source: © Deyan Georgiev 123rf Purpose-driven content marketing is the futureThis doesn’t surprise me. Millennials and GenZ have changed the face of purchasing by aligning their spend with brands that have a purpose and a story. We’re looking for emotional, sustainable connections. and content is the best way to communicate brand purpose. Slower burn approachCommercial content goes beyond product and price; it’s not about selling a product or a service – it’s about communicating a sentiment or emotion through content that is useful and relevant to the user.  Brands willing to forgo a hard sell in favour of a ‘slower burn’ approach reap the benefits of loyal, highly engaged communities. I see this first-hand in my world: two recent, concurrent campaigns for a banking client yielded average times of page of 28 and 26-minutes respectively for long-form written content – truly astounding in our cluttered attention economy. South African brands should have even more impetus to invest in content campaigns. As a nation, our storytelling traditions are rich and robust, and our content campaigns’ higher-than-average engagement times suggest local audiences are willing to invest their time – and valuable data – in content campaigns.The next big thing for content marketingPurpose-driven content marketing is key for 2022 and beyond. I can’t stress this enough: audiences are wise to virtue signalling and greenwashing. Inauthentic or misleading marketing campaigns are a waste of everyone’s time. Instead, invest in content that uplifts the reader and does good for local communities. It’s not just the right thing to do – it makes business sense. Research shows 42% of surveyed millennials said they would deepen their relationship with brands that positively impact society or the environment. Just this month WAN-IFRA’s Adspace24 won Best in Africa in the Best in Show at the International News Media Association's (INMA) 2022 Global Media Awards, for City Press & ABSA Money Make Over. Media24 wins 2022 INMA's Best in Africa3 days agoAll of those campaigns were purpose-driven, with content that either uplifted local communities or the reader themselves.