Source: SuppliedMelanie Leloup, trade relations manager for South Africa at South African Tourism, says: "Travel Week is a powerful incentive, especially for first-time travellers looking to dip their toes into new and exciting destinations and adventures."Travel Week aims to maximise value and return on investment for all participating members. The initiative is backed by significant investment from South African Tourism. The result is a powerful platform with a strategically targeted, multi-channel marketing plan to optimise exposure and generate excitement around the best local deals.Leloup provides some tips for South Africa’s tourism trade on how to maximise this year’s travel week.Who can register?Registrations are open to all trade members. South African Tourism encourages everyone from accommodation, airlines, car rental and transfer companies to museums, activities, and experiential businesses to register their deals for this year’s Travel Week.What is the cost to registerRegistration is free.How many deals can you register?Participants can register as many deals as they like. They can also add, edit, or remove deals at any time following registration, as long as deals are finalised by date.How should a deal be composed?Pictures: Members can upload up to seven images onto a carousel for each deal. Images should be 890x600 and we recommend that members use all seven images. The primary image should not contain logos or text. Video is also supported.Written content:You will need the following written content:• A title of 12 words or less. Hot tip: Include details of the discount in your title, as well as the number of people and number of nights. Be as specific as possible so the public knows exactly what the special entails.• A summary of 200 words detailing the deal’s main selling points.• A description of up to 1,000 words. This section should include deal details, as well as other selling points, attractions, free offerings, and features.• GPS coordinates and specific location for use on Waze and the Sho’t Left map.• Content may be edited prior to date.What to do once deals are loaded?• Let your audiences know about the deals and encourage them to use the Waze or Sho’t Left map to access the best deals.• Get admin assistance at any time by emailing ten.acirfahtuos@tfeltohs.• Members of the public can access deals through Waze, the Sho’t Left map, or by using the price, location, budget, and type filters on the Sho’t Left website.• Billboards and outdoor media will alert the public to even more deals.Leloup believes this is the opportunity tourism businesses need to reignite a passion for travel in these challenging times. "We just need the entire industry to participate and we can really kickstart the heart of the trade and the country we love so much."Register for Travel Week 2022.