Image suppliedThis makes millennials an in-between generation, one that has experienced the beauties of life offline, but at the same time the first to spend much of their youth on the internet.... and that has made them a 100% omnichannel generation. But which trends are engaging millennials, and how do brands and retailers successfully appeal to those born in the 80s and 90s? If we can understand what motivates and what makes a generation behave the way they do, we can better connect with them. Experts at Tiendeo, a platform that collects digital offers and promotions from retailers, have identified the 10 most popular trends used by brands to persuade and drive Gen Y to buy.Environmentally friendlyThere is no doubt that anything labelled "eco-friendly" immediately draws the attention of millennial consumers, who are particularly attentive to manufacturing methods, the raw materials used, the use of pesticides and synthetics, and CO2 emissions. According to the GlobalWebindex study, 6 out of 10 millennials are willing to pay a higher price for organic and sustainable products. LocalLocal products are winning more and more millennial hearts, from wines and beers to crates of fruit and chocolate. Local products are reaping the rewards of Gen Y consumers' loyalty, as they are eager to show up to a dinner party with friends with a wine from a small, local winery.What's hot in e-commerce in 2022? OneDayOnly's Matthew Barnes weighs in25 Feb 2022Made in South AfricaMillennials are staunch advocates of national production. They have the sensitivity to perceive and defend the value of South African excellence and are keen to promote the national economy and its industries (fashion, automotive, food, tourism, culture...). Cruelty-freeAnother trend that people over the age of 30 are getting behind is the fight against the torture of animals through experiments aimed at testing the effectiveness of beauty, personal care, and household products. The fact that a product is cruelty-free is a strong incentive to buy it.  InclusionThe subject of inclusion, toward women and all trans, non-binary or neutral genders, is central to contemporary discourse. So too is sexual orientation and any other element of discrimination. Therefore, brands that exhibit an open and inclusive attitude attract a lot of attention. According to a US study conducted by Quantilope, 72% of millennials believe that diversity and inclusion are highly relevant issues that brands should include in their communication.Saving timeBeing pressed for time is a recurring feature of millennials' lives. Brands that manage to simplify and optimize the day-to-day life of Gen Y individuals, who are constantly in search of hours to dedicate to themselves and their loved ones, rank highly. Case in point: Q-commerce or fast commerce, focused on speed of delivery. NostalgiaIf following fashion and cutting-edge technology is a trend, nostalgia for times gone by that will never return is also a major leitmotif. Therefore, those who know how to appeal to the deepest emotions and those who evoke lost sensations will be able to create a special bond with millennial consumers.What industries need to know about the new customerBy Bianca Gardella 23 Feb 2022 OmnichannelGiving a member of Generation Y the ability to move freely between the online and offline world is the best gift you could give them. Any brand that offers omnichannel services and advertising will find it easier to engage and retain this group of consumers. According to a study by Carat Consumer Connection System, 62% of millennials use the internet as the main point of information to make their purchasing decision. GlobalLocal is great, and global too. While it is true that millennials like local products, they also have an immense passion for everything that is new and comes from outside. Millennials feel part of both the local and the global community, and easily move from one to the other. Zero wasteAnything to do with recycling gets a big thumbs-up from millennials. Whether it's apps for buying/selling second-hand clothing and accessories, buying expired food at reduced prices, or recycled and recyclable packaging, success is guaranteed.