Jessica Reyneke has a passion for driving client success, has worked with a variety of analytics initiatives across industries and globally, and managed a variety of specialist roles within this domain. With disruptive change and radical uncertainty at an all-time high, we need data and analytics experts like her to guide businesses in the right direction towards the sustainable growth they desire. Having felt the impacts of the pandemic first-hand, joining Know Analytics has been a conscious decision in her mission to support clients in building custom capabilities suited to transform their data assets into fuel for success. Jessica is an expert at time-boxing transformative initiatives to deliver change iteratively and within a short timeframe. She has developed the consultancy’s now branded and custom 'Rapid' methodology, to ensure clients get the best results for their business within the constraints of budget, time, and ROI expectations. 'Rapid' stands for Research-Analyse-Plan-Implement-Drive and is the incremental delivery framework for shaping organisations in a way that one would gradually build a Lego model (incremental cost, incremental value, and evolving transformation). At Know Analytics, she also optimises the value of information assets and analytics used to render insights for the business and its customers, ensuring that the company trials and pioneers its recommendations to clients.Jessica brings to the table 10+ years’ experience leading product strategy, roadmaps, and strategic decision-making to drive top-line revenue growth. She has successfully built and led cross-functional teams who deliver innovative mar-tech, ad-tech, marketplaces, SaaS, big data analytics, e-commerce, and payment products. Her specialism in analytics and data-driven products has won her (and her businesses) multiple awards, including being a nominee for the very coveted “Future CIO of the Year Award” by the Women in IT UK Awards in 2018, and more recently being nominated for the “Top 50 Women Leaders of San Antonio for 2022” by Women We Admire, to be announced later this year in April.  Her achievements across a wide array of products and portfolios have enabled businesses and brands to minimise costs and increase revenue outcomes in 100+ millions. Jessica joins Know Analytics from having serviced world-renowned brands like Gate Group, EasyJet, Virgin Australia, Clear Channel, Apex, JCDecaux, Black Swan Data and many others.Her unique leadership skills inspire the people who work around her. Her can-do attitude and problem-solving abilities never fail to disappoint her clients. She has forged a path in a predominantly male world and endeavours to encourage young women to be the female leaders of tomorrow.