Jeanine holds a marketing degree from Tshwane University of Technology and has had a stellar 15-year career at New Media, where she’s worked on a host of brands including Ackermans, AMC Networks, BBC, Mediclinic, Mercedes-Benz, Mr Delivery, MultiChoice, Plascon, Southern Sun, VISI, Vodacom and Woolworths. She was most recently Group account director on Eat Out and Food24 and acting head of Food since last November. Her exceptional leadership skills, strategic and creative mind, and natural affinity towards excellent client service were key in the decision to ask her to lead New Media’s growth in the content solutions space.Jeanine says: “Our client value proposition has evolved over the past two years. Driven by our acquisition of Swipe iX in 2020, we’ve grown our digital offering tremendously and, along with these increased abilities, our clients need us to be faster, more strategic and more focused on delivering solutions that show real ROI. This team is equipped to deliver just that, with specialists focused on what they do best, and a massive support base in the rest of the group for us to draw on. I am excited to charge into a new normal with our fantastic clients and the New Media team.”New Media CEO Aileen Lamb says: “Jeanine’s just about seen it all at New Media. She is well respected by her colleagues and is a creatively driven, commercially minded, collaborative leader. Jeanine also possesses a remarkable tenacity of spirit, which is incredibly inspiring. One of the things I respect the most about her is her unwavering commitment to leading with values. I couldn’t think of anyone better to take the reins of our core content marketing and owned brands business.”Alongside the company’s world-class client content solutions, Story Station also produces the award-winning and very successful Eat Out, Food24 and VISI brands, all of which have shown tremendous growth over the past financial year.Jeanine says: “In 2022, Eat Out will re-launch the annual Eat Out Restaurant Awards and VISI will expand its successful supplements and growing e-commerce store, shop.visi.co.za. Applying the minds of the country’s top content marketers to our own titles allows New Media to leverage these powerful brands to really unlock value for our advertisers in new and exciting ways, while adding material value to audiences.”The new Story Station at New Media will complement New Media’s existing internal communications specialism, as well as its B2B marketing offering.