Image supplied: Bull Brand has launched the 'Stand Strong, Stand Proud' podcast series The series recently launched and features ten bi-weekly episodes, hosted by YouTuber Sibu Mpanza and Nickelodeon’s face of Africa presenter, Lerai Rakoditsoe. The podcast is available via streaming platforms YouTube, Spotify, and Apple Music. Built off the brand’s proposition of ‘Stand Strong, Stand Proud,’ the series will feature an array of guests who will each share their unique story of strength, which will aim to inspire fellow South Africans to discover the potential of their inner strength. “South Africa has no shortage of inspiring stories of youth overcoming adversity to achieve their dreams. The aim of this podcast series is to give SA’s vibrant youth a platform to tell their stories as well as for the listeners to be inspired by them,” says Wendy Roman, brand manager at RFG Foods.  “For 65 years this iconic brand still occupies the number one spot as the market leader in the Canned Meats and Meals Category, but as with all legacy brands, the time has come for Bull Brand to evolve with its consumers,” Roman adds. “The brand continues to resonate with a younger market as we have seen with the Sunday Times GenNext surveys over the past couple of years, where Bull Brand appears as one of the coolest brands.” Roman explains that it is with this in mind that we looked at growing the brand through activities that continue to drive resonance with this growing sector of consumers. “Bull Brand has held a special place in South African hearts and homes since1957 and remains Mzansi’s number one[1] canned meat brand and with this podcast series we are hoping to bring further inspiration to our younger market.” 2022 Radio Awards entries open18 Mar 2022 The first #StateOfTheStrong episode is live with the multi-talented George Mnguni aka Okay Wasabi, who’s never short of jokes and whose ambition knows no limits.  The series will run for six months with an episode released every 2nd week. “We are excited to share the State of The Strong podcast series as it comes at a time when South Africa needs to hear and share good news,” concludes Roman.