Image supplied: The Battle of the Giants All Styles DanceSport Festival is returning to Sun CityAfter a two year break due to the pandemic, the festival celebrates its 30th year and will host various dance schools from all over the country, with dancers showing off their latest artistic styles and choreographed performances for the local and international judges.This internationally recognised event is organised and sanctioned by the South African Body of Dance (SABOD) and supported by DanceSport SA. It is organised by SABOD president and South African IDO representative Bev Wood and her team. “We are very grateful for the support shown this year considering the current economic climate. This competition provides the dancers with an exciting opportunity to perform and showcase their talent at this internationally acclaimed venue of Sun City and we are grateful to them for their longstanding commitment and partnership of this event. We wish all the dancers an unforgettable experience, and to the local and international judges, as well as our sponsors, thank you for investing in the sport of dance so that we can continue to compete at an international level,” said Wood. This year will see these dance styles performed: Hip Hop, Modern, Show Dance, Slow Dance, Freestyle, Disco Dance, Popping, Break Dance, Street Dance, Tap, Ballet, Jazz and Latin and Ballroom. Image supplied: The Battle of the Giants All Styles DanceSport Festival is returning to Sun CityA new section to the BOTG is an Open section for traditional dance styles such as Pansulu, Gumboot, African, Bollywood, Sbujwa, Breaking Crews and much more.Individual dancers will have the opportunity to compete for titles and prizes in this year’s competition - which is also one of the qualifier events in the World Trial Circuit programme.This year hosts two Internationally renowned judges, Mitja Popovski from Ljubljana, Slovenia and Samy Böhner from Graz, Austria.  BOTG wants to thank their sponsors Lara Travel, Essence, Steers, Debonairs, Milky Lane, Fishaways and Sun City for hosting the event since 1999. Russian Bear competition winners collaborate with SA icons2 days ago“The Battle of the Giants All Styles DanceSport Festival has been a popular event on Sun City’s entertainment annual calendar for three decades, with dancers and their supporters flocking to Sun City to be part of it. This year promises to be another exciting artistic showcase,” said Wood. Tickets for the festival can be purchased on Computicket.