Image supplied: The International Arts Talent Showcase aims to develop local talentThe showcase aims to identify local talent and develop this talent through international art education. Auditions will happen on 7 May in East London and 14 May in Johannesburg. Butler says, “This is the season to empower the future of this nation. I am coming back to South Africa for the 9th year now. Africa is part of my DNA. I never knew what it was about the country that kept drawing me back, but I soon realised it is what the citizens call Ubuntu. This is a country rich with talent and I want to continue strengthening the movement that The International Arts Talent Showcase has mastered by uplifting and empowering the youth of South Africa.”Asus ProArtist Awards open for South African entries18 Mar 2022Butler will be issuing workshops in Music Business and Royalties, Cast to Get Casted and Developing and Mastering Your Authentic Confident Self. Elsubie Verlinden, producer of the IATS, says, “Nate Butler is a vibrant source of wisdom that speaks to the heart of our youth. With the large unemployment rate in our country, predominantly among the youth, Nate speaks hope into the lives of our children. Now is the season for our youth to be empowered and take back their power. Our aim is to equip youngsters with the skills to get up and work at changing their circumstances.”Moreover, The American Musical and Dramatic Academy (AMDA) will be bringing in $850,000 in partial educational scholarships, in cooperation with the IATS. Auditions for these scholarships will take place on 5 and 6 April in Johannesburg and for one day only in Cape Town on 11 April.Image supplied: The International Arts Talent Showcase aims to develop local talentVerlinden will also be bringing in Nancy Mancuso, head of the International Modeling and Talent Convention (IMTA) to the 12th Annual IATS Talent Showcase on 29-30 September and 1 October. She will be part of the international adjudicating panel for the three-day showcase.Verlinden adds, “Bringing in Nancy to South Africa for the first time is an honour. We pride ourselves in allowing local hopefuls to be discovered internationally. It is important for young entrepreneurs to remember that global opportunities are available for those who have the faith to pursue their dream. By believing in yourself, anything is possible.”Lastly, select auditions and workshops will form part of a new reality television show called Dream Factory.Dream Factory will be aired during the month of June, youth month, as it celebrates the youth in our country and the international opportunities on offer.Design Joburg returns with "glocal" creativity19 hours agoVerlinden concludes, “Dream Factory, in collaboration with The International Arts Talent Showcase, is travelling the country to create hope, empower and educate the youth and young adults in the entertainment, arts and fashion industry. We are discovering, identifying and developing our nation. Dream Factory is where dreams are manufactured, a show that will showcase the talent in all nine provinces, filled with back stories of struggle and victory. Moving from victim to victory mindsets, Dream Factory will drive hope, showcase undiscovered talent and empower our nation with real stories of transformation and success.” To take part in the workshops with Nate Butler, email creativedirector@33andme.co.zaTo take part in the AMDA auditions, email education@amdasa.co.za