Over the past two months, we asked the residents of Joburg  to give us input and feedback about Hot 102.7FM. We asked about the music we play, our presenters, the news bulletins, on-air competitions, and our social responsibility programmes. All the things that matter to you, matter to us as we continue presenting world-class radio.  With your valuable input we have been able to evaluate and fine-tune Hot 102.7FM as we strive to be your #1 station in Gauteng. The response from the residents of Johannesburg was overwhelming and has afforded Hot 102.7FM valuable input which includes:  More music and less talk was loud and clear, so we've increased our weekday music mixes and back-to-back hit plays.  You want to hear more hits from the 70s, 80s and 90s. Yay! Our favourite decades!  You love winning or hearing people win. So we  guarantee  we’ll be  paying out more cash and prizes for the rest of 2022.  Like us you feel for the underprivileged communities and those organisations who do so much for the poor, elderly and animals respectively. We deeply appreciate your suggestions for additional charities who could benefit from our CSI initiatives and believe is we care with Hot Cares.  You enjoy your news, you want it topical and relevant to your lives. However with so much negativity in the world today you`d like to hear more feel-good stories in our news bulletins. We have already implemented this and look forward to your suggestions for a good news story.  Everyone likes a good party, meaning our Old Skool parties are a must. We are going to organise more of these in the near future and we`ll see you on the dancefloor. Hot 102.7FM managing director Lloyd Madurai concludes, ”Joburg’s 2022 radio check-up was exactly what we set out to achieve - an honest survey of what listeners really think about their radio stations. We listened and have now made the big switch to the best world-class radio experience.” Set your dial on 102.7FM, catch us on DSTV audio channel 822 and streaming all over on www.hot1027.co.za.