Image supplied: Artscape production of She's a Fighter On 4 and 5 March, She’s a Fighter will be performed with the aim being creating and raising awareness around substance abuse, violence against women and child and teenage pregnancy. The two-fold true story depicts the struggles women go through and the challenges they face against the grain of the Cape Flats. This is a production by the First Community Resource Centre Arts and Culture based in Hanover Park. On 9 March, the 2022 Cape Town Pride Proms will strut in the Opera House for a spectacular night of music featuring local singers accompanied by the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra. As a first in Africa, this glamorous evening will feature songs and music that have been either written or performed by LGBTIA+ persons as recognition of the contribution of LGBTIA+ talent. Artscape will honour the legacy of poet Adam Small with the production Die Poet, Wie’s Hy? in celebration of those who have gone before us. This production will run from 15 – 19 March and seeks to give new life to his written works. This will be done under the leadership of Frieda van den Heever and Dean Balie with musical talent and accompaniment by Die Khoisan Gypsy Band.  Image supplied: Pride Proms will feature at Artscape in the month of MayAs a young intellectual, Small strongly advocated the use of one’s voice. It was this medium that he used to denounce various human rights abuses under the Apartheid government. He did through the use of various public platforms such as newspaper columns, open letters, his poems, plays, essays, including public speaking. The production further explores who Small was as a person and an activist, given the fact that his works still helps us to recognise our origins, to recognise ourselves in others and to explore our future together. The production is being done in conjunction with Toyota Woordfees and Nati.  Artscape Arena will host the world premiere of the drama Contested Bodies by Abrahamse and Meyer Productions from 16 March – 2 April. The flinging of human excrement by political activists, Chumani Maxwele, at the statue of British Imperialist, Cecil John Rhodes on 9 March 2015, became a watershed moment in how South Africans respond and relate to the trauma of our colonial past. In their “outrage for the stage” Abrahamse and Meyer do some faeces flinging of their own in an outrageous entertainment fashion that is likely to be the most controversial and contested play of the year. The production is strictly for adults only as it contains scenes with strong language, partial male nudity, violence, prejudice, and simulated sex. Contested Bodies to premier at Artscape Arena3 days agoThe Manfred Zylle Rural Outreach Exhibition will showcase a variety of artists in various genres from classical Western, to African indigenous, as well as well-known personalities that reflect Artscape’s rural outreach programme. This programme annually identifies a historically disadvantaged community either within the urban boundaries of rural areas to “take the theatre to the community”. The artwork is an engagement with individuals and their position in society. Image supplied: Marcel Meyers, Lungile Lallie and Matthew Baldwin in Contested Bodies As the month concludes patrons can dance in celebration with the Unmute Dance Company’s Timelapse / We Are Here production. This dance journeys through a time-lapse of conversations around birth, memories and what these moments lead up to in shaping new beginnings and will be performed from 31 March to 2 April. These dancers with disabilities together with able-bodied dancers will frame movements that depict actions questioning what we do now and how it would profoundly affect what comes next. Through these actions and frames, we witness a rebirth of time and conversations. Jazzart Dance Theatre under the leadership of Sifiso Kweyama, Dane Hurst and Shaun Oelf will present Meraki, a production about doing something with soul, creativity, or love; to leave a piece and essence of yourself in your work.  All activities comply with all Covid-19 regulations including social distancing and patrons must wear masks for entry. Tickets are available and can be booked at Computicket or Artscape Dial-a-seat 021 421 7695. Visit the Artscape website for more information.