JD Engelbrecht“Everlytic has transitioned from its initial focus on bulk email and SMS into offering a multi-channel platform that offers globally competitive automation functionality. We have found the balance between cost-effectiveness, richness of features, ease of use, multi-channel capabilities, best-in-market delivery rates and superior support. This has helped the company to show revenue growth of 30% year-on-year over the past two years, while we have also grown our workforce by over 30 members,” says JD Engelbrecht, MD at Everlytic.With over a decade's experience, Everlytic is the leading communication platform in Africa, and has hundreds of enterprise customers across all industries. It provides a growth journey for every stage of the customer lifecycle, which helps support clients at every level of their bulk communication journey, from when they start sending bulk messages, to dabbling in personalisation, and finally, to becoming a fully equipped Communication Automator.Engelbrecht adds that Everlytic offers the best-in-market blended message delivery rates that outperform those of both local and international competitors. This rate includes all types of message traffic, and not just transactional messages like OTPs where a high rate is expected. The company is now one of South Africa’s largest bandwidth consumers, processing 4.5TB per day, and sent out 6.6bn emails in 2021, up from 5.5bn the previous year. “The strength of our business lies in the agile culture of continuous innovation and an intense customer focus. We welcome SMEs with powerful features at affordable rates that help them grow their businesses, but our core strength and focus lies in our ability to take large and growing enterprise clients on a growth journey using our world-class platform, whilst understanding the specific needs of corporate clients. We provide above-market features at below-market rates with unmatched service, and have since 2019 introduced features such as web push, automated voice, e-commerce and interest-based tagging to maintain our position as a globally-competitive bulk communication and automation platform,” says Engelbrecht.Separately, Englebrecht was listed among ‘The 10 Best Performing Technology Leaders of 2021’ by Insights Success magazine. Insights Success provides a platform to all C-level professionals, managers and HR practitioners of organisations, to flaunt their innovative style of conducting business and the way of delivering effective and collaborative solutions to strengthen the market share.About EverlyticEverlytic is a digital messaging platform that helps businesses communicate personally, reliably, and automatically using bulk email, SMS, and voice broadcasting – at scale. Hundreds of brands use Everlytic, including Old Mutual, Comedy Central, Computicket, and many more. Everlytic customers are delighted with the effectiveness, ease of use, and the support that its solutions and teams offer. With an impressive email sending volume of 6.5bn emails a year, Everlytic stands proud as a world-class South African email and SMS messaging platform, recognised and endorsed by leading industry experts.To find out more, visit Everlytic’s website here.