Source: Andrew Donovan Valdivia via UnsplashAll unvaccinated travellers entering the country who want to be vaccinated will be offered a vaccination.According to a news report published by Business Insider; earlier this month, the department of health mooted dropping pre-departure testing for the vaccinated, in a package of draft regulations intended to replace those imposed under the authority of the state of disaster. But those rules are still open for public comment, and could only become effective towards the end of April at the very earliest. Anyone who can not show they are fully vaccinated will still need to present a PCR test no older than 72 hours, President Ramaphosa said. They will also be offered vaccination, the news report adds. Commenting on the decision, Minister Sisulu says: "As we are all looking forward to a brighter year for the South African tourism sector recovery, these revised regulations are most welcome. These revisions will immediately address some challenges that travellers and the tourism industry have expressed and will make South Africa more accessible and attractive. Doing away with the requirement of a PCR test for all arrivals reduces the added cost and administrative burden to travelling.""Increasing the numbers of people attending outdoor indoor events is a major boost for leisure travel and the Business Events industry.  We look forward to South Africa hosting many more physical meetings and conferences that can be held at a larger scale," continues Sisulu. "This comes at an opportune time, as our plans are well underway to host Africa’s Travel Indaba in May, one of our signature trade shows, after a two-year absence due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "South African borders are open and we are ready to welcome regional and international visitors. Our globally-benchmarked norms and standards are in place to ensure the safety of all citizens and visitors alike," Sisulu says."Now is a great time to travel for business and leisure, come and explore our beautiful country, we stand ready to welcome travellers near and far," concluded Sisulu.