Second-hand products, more sustainable brands and the ongoing delivery revolution are just some of the leading trends that are currently impacting the development of the e-commerce sector and which will be unpacked during ECOM Africa when it returns to Cape Town from 4–5 May. This will be the eighth edition of this flagship, specialist gathering in the e-commerce, retail, and fintech sector and the first hybrid edition, with limited tickets available for the in-person event at the CTICC and the online broadcast. Understanding and meeting the customers “Only 1% of GDP in South Africa is in e-commerce,” says ECOM Africa MD Terry Southam. “That means there is still huge opportunity for growth and the opportunities and the challenges are increasing in tandem with the massive explosion in e-commerce we have seen over the past couple of years. Understanding the customers and meeting them where they are is paramount to breakthrough success.” He continues: “We are looking forward to hosting 1,000 selected guests in May this year for our first in-person event since the pandemic. We have a true who’s who in our keynote line-up, including Alex Genov, head of customer experience research at Zappos, who will specifically focus on customer loyalty and data. In fact, we have several world-class, international speakers with backgrounds in customer experience, data science and building a digital-first business from the ground up.” He continues: “The expo floor will feature select in-person keynotes and Q&As, a knowledge bar with select keynote speakers. Our full conference ticket gets you access to all our keynotes and panel discussions along with live Q&A. All information regarding the two tickets are available on our website. Online attendees will also be able to participate, learn, share and inspire.” The programme will cover topics from store design and optimisation, marketing and brand building, payments and security, logistics and fulfilment, as well as business operations. Trends defining 2022 “Sustainability, reusability, fulfilment and DTC (direct-to-consumer) are definitely the buzzwords in the e-commerce space right now,” ECOM Africa’s Terry Southam explains. “Consumers are increasingly seeking out sustainable brands; this is especially true for younger audiences. The same goes for second-hand items, which has become a rapidly growing market segment. Fulfilment and delivery underwent a revolution during the pandemic and is constantly evolving with shorter delivery times and same-day delivery made possible through partnerships between retailers and delivery services. There are major roadblocks such as labour but the revolution will continue. “There is also a noticeable upward trend of brands going direct-to-consumer (DTC),” Southam adds, “with manufacturers and wholesalers selling directly to customers to avoid retailers and intermediaries, thanks to e-commerce.” ECOM Africa’s 40+ confirmed speaker line-up so far includes: Keynote speakers:  Alex Genov, head of customer experience research, Zappos, LA  Michael Ros, CEO/Co-founder - Bidroom, Netherlands  Liam McCreedy, founder, Quench, RSA  Vincent Viviers, general manager: Pick n Pay Online Marketing & Commercial, RSA More expert speakers, panellists and moderators:  Tanuj Shekhar, group director of logistics, Jumia, Portugal  Dirk van der Walt, co-owner and co-founder, WeBuyCars, RSA  George Mienie, CEO, Autotrader, RSA  Laurian Venter, director, OneDayOnly, RSA  Joseph Sindaha, head of e-business, Nestlé, RSA  Lauren Hartzenberg, managing editor, retail editor, Bizcommunity, RSA Ajibola Olayiwola, head of marketing, Konga Shopping, Nigeria  James Mew, founder and MD - Mentality, SA - Based out of Portugal  Greg Le Roux, CEO, Loot.co.za, RSA  Paris Philippou, vice-president, B2C Websites, Group E-commerce, Massmart, SA  Jamie Ostrowick, CTO, Bidorbuy  Christoph Steyn, managing director, Rugged RSA  Diana Bett, managing director, Purpinks Gifts, Kenya  Carol Odero, editor-in-chief, CIO Africa, Kenya  Dumi Mahlangu, founder: Chepa Streetwear (Pty) Ltd  Heinrich van Eck, director, Rugged SA  Llyod Abrahams, supply chain and logistics director, The Foschini Group Industry-leading technologies An exciting part of the hybrid event in Cape Town will be the partner showcases with the latest innovative technologies, products and services to assist online retailers in reaching their customers faster and more effectively. ECOM Africa partners Worldpay, Fareye, Insaka, Dataweave, UNISA, and The Courier Guy who will have a strong presence throughout the event. They will share their experiences with the audience and also interact digitally with them. Register and contacts To join for the full two days of in-depth keynotes, panel discussions, networking and live Q&A sessions, purchase an All-Access Pass conference ticket or Expo Pass here. When and where: Live, in-person and online conference and expo on 4-5 May 2022Location: CTICC, Cape Town, South AfricaWebsite: ecommerce-africa.comTwitter: twitter.com/ecomafricaconFacebook: ECOM AfricaLinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/ecom-africaMedia contacts:Adam Fletcher, chief marketing officer, ECOM Africa Mobile: 071 130 9160Email: ten.stnevecitenik@mada Annemarie RoodbolMobile: 082 562 7844Email: moc.akuveraew@lobdoor.eiramenna