Pearson South Africa congratulates the matric class of 2021 for their hard work and sterling performance in the 2021 National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations. In the face of great challenges brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic, the class of 2021 was resilient and made the country proud by achieving a 76.4% pass rate.To celebrate the hard work, while stimulating a lifelong passion for learning, Pearson South Africa, in collaboration with the Limpopo Provincial Department of Education, have handed over R350,000 worth of book vouchers to ten of the best performing high schools in the province. The province’s class of 2021 recorded a matric pass rate of 66.7% and, unlike the previous year, Limpopo does not have any schools with a 0% public school pass rate.“These are all terrific students with remarkable minds that have had an exceptional academic foundation – in order for them to play their part in building a better future for themselves and the rest of the country, they need access to high-quality and relevant books,” said Ramlagan. “We hope this helps create a permanent appetite for learning – student’s literacy skills are important to their success at school, work, and life in general. The importance of reading for young people cannot be underestimated.” This initiative is aligned with the provincial department’s goal to reward excellent academic performance by learners and the dedicated teachers who have supported them, as well as provide motivation to the rest of the community, emphasising that education is a pre-condition for development.Limpopo Education MEC, Polly Boshielo added: “The donation from Pearson will go a long way in assisting our top schools in delivering quality education to our learners. As a result, as the Limpopo Department of Education, we appreciate the gesture.”The MEC further highlighted that Limpopo’s class of 2021 achieved 17,751 distinctions across different subjects, which is an increase of 1,707 from the 2020 class. More so, 11,444 of those distinctions were achieved by female candidates and 6,307 by males. According to one of the teachers, M.A. Mabidilala of Mpapatla Secondary School, Mawa Circuit, in Mopani West, books in general play an important role in everyone’s life, especially in a students’ life. So, as a quantile small school, Mpapatla Secondary School genuinely appreciate Pearson’s donation, as it will be crucial in assisting the teachers to improve learner performance.Ramlagan at Pearson concluded: “Our dedication to creating positive social impact shapes everything we do, from our products and strategies to the way we engage with South African learners, partners, and communities. Part of our mission is to help learning flourish, because wherever learning flourishes, so do people.”