“As our most affordable model at the time of launch in 2015, the Celerio has welcomed an entire generation of new car buyers to Suzuki. It has also won us many awards, including the winner of Best Budget Car categories. It really is no wonder that Suzuki has paid much attention to the design and specification of this model, to ensure that it perfectly exemplifies the ethos of efficiency, durability and value-for-money in the all-new Celerio. Third DimensionThe 2022 Suzuki Celerio is a brand-new model from the ground up and as such, it features a newly fledged exterior and interior design, a new platform and a new DualJet engine.Suzuki’s designers have replaced the bold and angular style of the previous Celerio with a new, more rounded and more deeply sculpted body. The new Celerio has a deep oval grill with large S-emblem and chrome highlights that stretch beyond the grille to the teardrop headlamps. From the side, the Celerio has a more accentuated hip line and at the rear, the droplet tail lamps and high-level third brake light round off the picture.HeartectThe new Celerio now rides on a new version of Suzuki’s renowned Heartect platform. This platform does duty in modern Suzuki models such as the Swift and the upcoming new Baleno, and it is well-regarded for its high structural rigidity, innovative energy dispersion channels for greater impact protection and its low weight.In the Celerio, this platform allowed Suzuki to move the wheels to the outermost corners for better road holding. Small car, spacious cabinThe cabin features new, integrated front- and rear seats that optimise space, while remaining comfortable. Suzuki has also added a 60:40 split rear seat and reshaped the luggage bay with a flush fitting parcel shelf, luggage hooks and a deeper base (despite housing a full-sized spare) to increase loading space to 295l. In the front, the dashboard has been redesigned for visibility, a sense of space, and to integrate the new 7” touchscreen infotainment system (standard on the GL specification level).As this model traditionally spends most of its time in the city commute, Suzuki also redesigned the centre console to integrate all the main controls, including electric windows (GL), door locks (GL) and the standard air conditioning to be close at hand for both the driver and front passenger.TouchscreenThe Celerio GL is fitted with a new-generation version of its touch-screen infotainment system.This system is equipped with a USB port, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto as standard. It also features a host of smart vehicle notifications, alerts and information, such as instantaneous and average fuel consumption, fuel range and information from its integrated rear parking sensors. The GA model is also equipped with rear parking sensors, but the guidance is audio-only. This model has, however, also been pre-equipped with a roof-mounted antenna, two speakers and integrated wiring for the easy fitment of a Suzuki audio system. All models have Bluetooth and audio controls on the steering wheel.Dualjet technologyThe Dualjet engine offers multi-point fuel injection from two injectors per cylinder, which allowed Suzuki engineers to offer more efficient combustion.The engineers also added roller rocker-type valve mechanisms, variable valve timing for the four valves per cylinder, exhaust gas recirculation and oil cooling jets under each of the three pistons for greater thermal efficiency and a generally lower operating temperature. Also new to the Celerio and this class of vehicle is the Engine Automatic Start Stop (EASS) system.Together, all these new technologies combine to give the Celerio an average fuel consumption figure of 4.2ls per 100km.  This makes the Suzuki Celerio South Africa’s most fuel-efficient five-door petrol hatchback.Priced from just R174,900The Suzuki Celerio range is sold with Suzuki’s five-year/200,000km mechanical warranty and a Roadside Assistance programme for the same period. A six-year/unlimited anti-corrosion warranty is also included as standard. All models also receive a two-year/30,000km service plan as standard.