Image supplied: Alex and Eloise Windebank of Farro“When we met Alex and Eloise Windebank and experienced their food, we knew Farro was the perfect fit for Gabriëlskloof,” explains Peter-Allen Finlayson, co-owner and cellarmaster at Gabriëlskloof. “Their warmth and hospitality are perfectly aligned to the experience we offer here.” Farro’s husband-and-wife duo of Alex and Eloise Windebank will bring their classic-meets-comfort style of cooking together with the casually convivial hospitality for which they have become known to the magnificent winelands’ space. Guests can expect a refined, pared-back approach to farm style dining when visiting Farro at Gabriëlskloof. Image supplied: Gabriëlskloof Wine EstateAlex and Eloise – who met while working the restaurant scene in London before relocating to South Africa – brought Farro to life, largely as a result of their joint love of food, wine and the 30 years of restaurant experience between them. Originally in Johannesburg, the restaurant found critical acclaim, before relocating to Cape Town for a four-month residency at Café Frank in Cape Town’s bustling gastro-scene on Bree Street. The foodAt the farm, expect to see chef Alex’s take on wholesome, classic and comforting dishes. It is about embracing simplicity, respecting the ingredient and celebrating all the region has to offer. Being based at Gabriëlskloof where sustainability is at the heart of the farm’s activities, Chef Alex is clearly excited to have a veritable selection of producers and farmers on his doorstep. “This is the next chapter for Farro. More relaxed but with the food we love and for which, we hope, we have become known,” says Alex. “It’s about taking our respect for both food and locality to the next level. There’s such a wealth of produce here that we just didn’t have access to previously, that’s really going to help drive my culinary ethos and direction in a way I just couldn’t before. It’s all about well-grown produce, treated with respect to bring out the maximum flavour.” Image supplied: Farro's pork belly with mustard sauceExpect Farro favourites the likes of the velvety duck liver parfait, black cherry and buttery brioche toast, seasonal veloutés and a melt in the mouth pork belly with mustard sauce and local greens. These will be joined by a selection of dishes inspired by the new farm locale and country way of life, think marbled ribeye and chips, home-smoked Elgin trout and country style terrines with pickles and preserves from the abundant harvest of the Gabriëlskloof kitchen garden. Tintswalo Lodges and Liam Tomlin collaborate to open new culinary destination25 Feb 2022“We love the fact that the food at Farro and our Gabriëlskloof wine really shine together,” Peter-Allen adds. “The food is honest and soulful; an approach fits beautifully with our attitude towards winemaking at Gabriëlskloof.” The experience“We’re so excited to welcome guests to Farro this April, and we can’t wait for everyone to experience the food, service and hospitality,” Peter-Allen concludes. Farro will be open for breakfast and lunch from Monday to Sunday from 9am with last bookings at 3pm. To make a booking, go here. No reservations will be taken by email.