TBWA\Chiat Day New York senior copywriter Dotun BelloThe free creative boot camp is co-sponsored by TBWA\Chiat Day New York and Wieden+Kennedy, and based on the platform and curriculum of The One Club’s own long-running Creative Boot Camps.  The Lagos Creative Development Bootcamp was developed to train creative professionals in Nigeria on how to build their own personal brands, and show them how to promote their work at an international level.  “Having worked in both Lagos and the US, some of the barriers for creatives in a smaller market like Nigeria gradually became more apparent to me,” said Bello, who began his copywriting career with Noah’s Ark, Etu Odi and Saatchi & Saatchi in Lagos and then came stateside to work at agencies including Goodby Silverstein, MullenLowe and Eleven.  “Creatives in Lagos are focused on the client’s work, but don’t give the same energy to building their own brands for themselves,” he said. “Most creatives in Nigeria don’t have websites and don’t often think to promote themselves on social media or with the international press. At the global level, a creative person without a book is seen as less professional. These are some of the barriers the boot camp will address.”  What to expectA group of leading industry figures will coach attendees on topics including personal branding, creating a portfolio site, building their brand on LinkedIn and other social platforms, getting press coverage, tips on salary negotiating, and more.  Among those confirmed to serve as tutors are Lionel Carreon, executive director, global creative recruiting, TBWA\Worldwide; Chapin Clark, ECD, R/GA New York; Aisha Hakim, ACD at Preacher in Austin; Sai He, copywriter, Wieden+Kennedy; Anna Melissa Ledesma-Raquid, copywriter on Nike at Filter Los Angeles; David Griner, international editor at Adweek; Derek Walker, creative/owner, Brown & Browner, with more still to be confirmed. The deadline to apply for the free 10-week program is 1 April 2022.  The boot camp kicks off on April 21, with sessions running 2-3 hours every Thursday evening. Applicants must be based in Nigeria – preferably in Lagos – and currently employed as a creative in advertising.While running as a virtual boot camp, the programme will also utilize an onsite location at the office of Lagos-based agency Yellow Brick Road.  Local program coordination will be handled by Jolomi Awala, CD at Ogilvy Lagos.  TO apply, go to https://onecamplagos.com/apply