Image supplied: Sipho ‘Hotstix’ MabuseWhat better way to spend an autumn afternoon than in the Winelands, listening to and letting Sipho ’Hotstix’ Mabuse and The Hotband take you on a musical journey of the hits and songs that have shaped the lexicon that is South African music?At 70, Mabuse is more vital than ever. His music has been featured in the December 2021 summer campaign for MTN. He also made the cover, including a 16-page feature in the Jan/Feb issue of GQ Magazine, and was awarded a GQ Lifetime Achievement Award the month before.#OnThisNote: Paranoid about heavy metalBy Emily Stander 18 Mar 2022 Why Mabuse at 70? Well, he turned 70 in November 2021, hence the Sipho at 70 tour, along with his sensational six-piece, The Hotband, consisting of :Thembeka Khumalo (SAMA nominated) on vocals,Siphiwe Kubheka on drums,Urban Noblela on guitar,David Mabaso on bass,Lloyd 'toto' Mbhele on keysAnd the man of the moment, Sipho Mabuse on vocals and saxophone.  As former President Kgalema Motlanthe wrote on Mabuse’s 70th birthday: "My brother Sipho, we have come a long way together, and through your 70 year-long pilgrimage to the highest echelons of social, cultural and artistic eminence, we remember the distinguished milestones of your life and honour this as a moment for all South Africans to consider your pioneering contribution to African music and a global movement of expression.  As one of the most influential multi-instrumentalists in Africa, the creative industry is fortunate to benefit from an endowment of musical genius, enlightened performances, and an unwavering commitment that Sipho “Hotstix’ Mabuse has offered to a range of young musicians over the past half-century.At 70 years of age, Sipho 'Hotstix’ Mabuse continues to play a critical role in the South African music scene with the power to build social cohesion, the ethical leadership to rear a new generation of musicians, and the virtuosity to uplift a nation through ground-shaking tunes."#MusicExchange: Louise Carver releases new singleBy Martin Myers 2 days ago 37 years ago, Mabuse’s half-a-million-selling smash-hit single Burn Out changed the face and shape of Afro-pop and township jive like no other song or artist in pop music history. Today there are few instruments he cannot play. Flute, piano, saxophone, kalimba, alto flute, timbales and African drums all feature at some point in his repertoire, all played with the respect each deserves. Warm, compassionate, caring and gifted in ways even he is still learning about, this gentle giant of great original music is as vital a player today as he’s ever been. With an impressive catalogue anchored in Africa, all who meet, greet, and share stages with Mabuse are all touched by a humility and grace that’s as rare as the talent this living legend shares with us all.All the songs will be there, including the early Harari classics, along with all of Mabuse’s many well-known hits. Grab a ticket to experience this once-in-a-lifetime show if living South African music heritage matters to you. This event is made possible with funding support from Concerts SA. A limited number of tickets are available from Quicket. Doors open at 1pm on 15 May.