Emakina, Europe's leading digital agency, takes its first step onto the African continent. With operations in 18 countries, the group opens its 26th office in Cape Town as part of its global growth strategy. The launch of the full-service user-centric digital agency's creative hub in South Africa brings compelling opportunities for ICT, marketing and digital professionals who can access international career-boosting and collaboration on a global level. Recognising the immense and diverse pool of African talent, Emakina seeks to connect emerging and seasoned professionals with remote opportunities to work on brands like Under Armour, NIKE, Maserati, KitchenAid and Red Bull. Headquartered in Brussels, Emakin has substantial agencies in Amsterdam, Paris, Geneva, Vienna, Stockholm and Dubai, and specialised digital consultancies across Europe, in the US, the UK and Asia. The new Cape Town creative hub is Emakina's first foray into Africa"By expanding into South Africa, we bring much-needed stimulation of opportunity to the country's creative professional workforce," said Karim Boutaour, Acquisition & Integration Director MEA at Emakina Group. "Emakina offers sustainable employment, international exposure, and a unique framework in which to build a solid creative career." To boot, Emakina has officially joined the EPAM Global family as it was recently acquired by EPAM Systems, Inc. (NYSE: EPAM), a leading digital transformation services and product engineering company, listed for the third consecutive year as one of the top IT Services company on the Fortune ‘100 Fastest-Growing Companies' list. This acquisition means combined resources will enhance the groups' ability to deliver creative solutions, personalised experiences, and next-generation digital products to global clients. Moreover, this giant operational backbone, Emakina's scalability and infrastructure, are well-fortified, giving employees and collaborators peace of mind in such unprecedented times. Join a global tribe as Emakina grows in South AfricaDarren McKay leads the South African team as creative director and executive manager. He founded The Greenhouse Advertising Agency and was creative director to Jupiter Drawing Room, gaining international experience working for companies like MC Saatchi, McCanns and TBWA in London. "It is the people who make Emakina," Darren comments. "We can show that South African talent meets, matches and competes with global standards. We are solution-centric and progressive with opportunistic energy... and most of us have a sense of humour. That perfectly fits Emakina's focus on the user experience to create more meaningful digital products and campaigns, engaging with users in the sweet spot where technology, business and creativity overlap." Multiple job openingsEmakina combines well-integrated local ability with international specialists in leading technologies, strategy, service design and marketing. Positions are open for art directors, creative copywriters, design strategists, digital designers, digital project managers, motion graphics designers and UX designers who can apply online here.