Source: ©bandit.com.au  bandit.com.auDrum.com reports that the styles are in multiple colorways while hinting at the inspiration behind each shoe.The Nike Air Max 3D campaign started on 21 March and runs till the 27 March to celebrate Air Max Day, 26 March, which started in 2014 when sneakerheads across the globe celebrated all things Nike Air Max. This year is the 35th anniversary of the shoe. Fans of the brand are expecting the sportswear giant to drop three new Air Max 1 colorways, with each pair exclusive to a specific region. However not much is known about the new Nike work or the agency behind it.bandit.com.au reports that Nike’s Japanese brand manager, Shun Hosoi, posting a video of the ad to LinkedIn overnight with the following post: “I’m thrilled to announce that we launched first-time-ever 3D OOH campaign to celebrate AirMax Day on 3.26. We are taking over the whole building of Cross Shinjuku from 3.21-3.27!!“I’d like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who was involved in this project from Nike brand marketing team, creative team, media team, and advertising agency part.” Shinjuku Station billboardAccording to drum.com Cross Shinjuku Vision is a new landmark installation in the city, with the first three floors of the building frequently used as an event space, while the top floor is equipped with the latest 4K image quality, LEDs and speakers."The brand [Nike] pointed out that the choice to start this celebration in Japan with 3D advertising is due to the fact that the Shinkuku subway station in Tokyo is recognised even in the Guinness record in 2018, for its great influx and the busiest in the world," says bandit.com.au. It further explains that the 3D curved billboard at Tokyo’s Shinjuku Station has – and, it should be said, deservedly – found a place in ad tech and media journalists’ hearts since it first caught the world’s attention when it came into play back in July last year. “Last October, a new ultra-realistic visual emerged  featuring the Dragon Ball antagonist Frieza shouting down at passing pedestrians. The next-gen ad promotes Bandai Namco‘s Dragon Ball Z: Dokkan Battle free-to-play mobile game,” says the site.“Eagle-eyed viewers will also notice a cat’s paw swiping the box right at the very end, and people familiar with Cross Shinjuku will be aware of the infamous 3D calico cat called Nya who resides there. Since July 2021, Nya has interacted with the organisation that advertises in the space,” adds thedrum.com.