Image suppliedmENT is an all-in-one digital experience for companies to offer the best in digital entertainment to their customers. mENT offers a selection of music, games, video, kids’ content and can include any other digital content type and category. It is multi-device compatible, available via a responsive desktop as well as a mobile web-based platform, with Android and iOS apps being deployed in early 2022. It offers unrivalled versatility in terms of monetisation options, with a choice between various models, including AYCE (all you can eat), pay-per-use and content-specific deals, bundling (daily, weekly, monthly, or annual subscriptions), as well as freemium and try-and-buy options.Paolo Rizzardini, CEO of Mondia Digital, said “mENT is a complete content experience, designed to be the simplest, most powerful solution for the world’s leading brands to offer premium digital content for their customers. Product evolution, content offering, partner relationships, and monetisation are all managed by Mondia Digital. This includes UI/UX design, development, hosting, tracking and reporting, content and partners sourcing, licensing, and management. I believe that mENT will shift the digital experience landscape through its user-friendliness and flexibility, allowing companies to get closer to their customers through a memorable digital excellence.”Content is key for a successful entertainment experience. Whether it’s the latest blockbusters, exciting short-form videos or the ability to binge-watch series’, Mondia’s extensive partnerships offers global content with the benefit of regional localisation.Through Mondia Digital’s seamless third-party integrations process, mENT will also, over time, add other offerings including fitness, e-reading, podcasts, cooking and much more!The solution is content-led, which means that clients can select either a single content category such as music or games, which can instantly be deployed or alternatively the full spectrum of content or parts can be selected and implemented over a short period of time.mENT’s advanced user experience design exceeds leading entertainment-industry standards and seamlessly promotes multiple content types. Features such as favourites, search, in-product advertisements, autoload content, content ratings, sharing, and improved communication all increase customer engagement and retention. An advanced reporting platform allows brands to learn from user behaviour and needs and allows Mondia Digital to continuously improve the product through updates that are pushed automatically to the product, resulting in ongoing enhancement to the user experience.