Snapplify, a leading global edtech company at the forefront of African edtech solutions, announces it is able to integrate with any LTI®-enabled learning management system (LMS) globally. LTI®, or Learning Tools Interoperability®, is a global standard for integration between learning tools and platforms established by IMS Global Learning Consortium (IMS Global) – a world leader in edtech interoperability and innovation. As one of the first African IMS Global partners, Snapplify is focused on providing an interconnected digital education ecosystem that better supports students and educators. Snapplify’s LTI® integration means that the award-winning Snappliy Engage platform can be connected with almost any learning management system (LMS) worldwide, including Classera, D2L Brightspace, Moodle, Canvas, and Blackboard. The integration is quick, secure, meets global standards for privacy and integration, and does not require expensive custom programming. "Institutions will always construct their e-learning implementation from multiple interlocking tools. There is no one-size-fits-all approach, and every institution is different. At Snapplify, we’ve always worked to make learning more accessible – and creating a frictionless learning experience is an important part of that," said Snapplify CEO Wesley Lynch, stressing that Snapplify’s goal is "to make it as seamless as possible for educators and students to transition between their LMS, their digital textbook and digital library, and other digital tools". IMS Global’s testing programs also enable products to be certified as compliant with specific global standards. Snapplify’s products are now IMS Global Certified – speaking to the calibre of the edtech company’s tech innovations. "Our team has worked hard to develop robust, world-class technology so we are proud to receive this certification," said Lynch. Collaboration has been a key part of Snapplify’s business success story. Now, working alongside the IMS Global community, Snapplify will further be able to accelerate digital transformation within the education system, particularly in Africa where the edtech company has achieved wide traction.