Brought to life by the iProspect and Vizeum South Africa team, the Stella Artois Rally for Your Bar and Restaurant campaign was awarded gold in two categories – 'Commerce at the intersection' and 'Growth through good'.In 2020, Stella Artois inspired South Africans to help restaurant and bar communities hard hit by Covid-19 closures. Stepping up to support the industry, Rally for Restaurants was created to incentivise consumers to #SaveYourSpot by purchasing gift cards today to use post-lockdown which provided local bars and restaurants immediate financial relief. Not only did this money go directly to the signed-up businesses, Stella Artois also committed to add an additional 50% of the value of each first voucher purchased, which meant the consumer enjoyed 150% of the value that they paid for the voucher.The campaign resulted in 520 restaurants and bars registered, +17% increase in brand sentiment despite not being able to sell actual product and R1 million + raised during phase 1 of the campaign.  Click here to watch.The third win for the South African market went to AB InBev’s What the Flying Fish? Bringing home bronze in the ‘Commerce at the intersection’ category, the campaign centred on Flying Fish as a one of a kind alcoholic beverage that is neither just beer nor just cider, it’s not a beverage to be enjoyed like any other, it not the norm. It is unexpected.Enter a unique opportunity to use augmented reality to bring their targeted consumers closer to the brand experience and to showcase the insight of accepting the unexpected – giving light to the phrase “What the Flying Fish #JustFlowWithIt”.Using the core creative idea of One Brow on Fleek from the brand TVC as a concept, a national takeover and selfie lens through Snapchat (with Bangers Mash) was developed that allowed consumers to create and share their own One Brow on Fleek experience.The campaign ran as an app national takeover day with the lens being made available for three months post launch. Further promotion was amplified across other social networks alluding to the power of cross channel integration.A further driver to the campaign as a continuation of the brand experience was a marker tech lens that allowed consumers to scan the Flying Fish bottle or can which brought the visual to life in a virtual experience showcasing the brand’s jovial and playful nature.Account Director, Reghardt van der Westhuizen said: “Being nominated is truly humbling but winning gold on the global stage is really encouraging. It is incredible to work for a brand that puts consumers and businesses at the heart of a campaign – delivering tangible, meaningful value, in a time when empathy and enablement was in desperate need.”Commenting on the global wins, Clare Trafankowska, managing director of iProspect SA said: “Only 20 pieces of work were shortlisted globally for this year’s 9th annual awards. That in itself was a phenomenal achievement for the teams involved. This years’ awards saw 50+ entries from across the world, with 80+ expert judges taking part from across the iProspect network.  We couldn’t be prouder of having been recognised on a global scale, having been awarded Gold in two out of six award categories.”Born to perform. Designed to deliver: Our promise to you.