Source: PixabayThe rebranding comes in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, prompting Stolichnaya Vodka owner Stoli Group to publicly condemn the military action and pledge its solidarity with Ukraine and its people.The Stoli brand is part of SPI Group of companies, a global organisation with a significant portfolio of spirits and wine brands from around the world, with Stoli’s European Global HQ based in Luxembourg. Source: Suppliedclick to enlargeMade in LatviaDue to the name of Stolichnaya Vodka, the brand has been caught up in recent consumer boycotts of “Russian-branded” products, and the rebranding will serve to distance it from associations with Russia. While originating in the Soviet Union in 1938, since the early 2000s the Stoli Group has been based in Latvia. After its founding in the Soviet Union, the company’s former CEO, Russian-born Yuri Shefler, moved the firm out of Russia in 2000 as Putin was coming into power, and the company has been critical of the regime ever since, according to a report by NHPR.Heineken announces complete exit from Russia3 days ago“I have personally experienced persecution by the Russian authorities and I share the pain of Ukraine and its people,” said Shefler, founder of SPI Group of companies. “More than anything, I wish for ‘Stoli’ to represent peace in all the markets that we exist in and we stand in solidarity with Ukraine.”Since Shefler was exiled, Stoli Vodka’s production facilities have been located in Latvia where blending, charcoal column filtration, bottling, packaging and distribution are handled.Resisting oppressive regimes“For decades, Stoli Group has resisted oppressive political regimes. We stand now with all Ukrainians and Russians calling for peace,” said Damian McKinney, Global CEO of Stoli Group. “We are inspired by the people who have taken to the streets calling for an end to this attack on a sovereign nation.”Nestlé further scales back business in Russia as public pressure mounts25 Mar 2022“This is very personal to us,” continued McKinney. “As a former Royal Marine Commando, I know all too well the desire to take action. We have the resources and ability to sponsor in the near term, and are establishing plans for the long haul to continue to help the region that has been so good to Stoli for many years.”In support, Stoli Group has announced an immediate financial commitment to World Central Kitchen (WCK), a non-profit organisation that is first to the frontlines, providing meals in response to climate, humanitarian, and community crises. The support will go directly to relief in Ukraine.