Image suppliedUsing years of Ford truck expertise and a deep understanding of truck customers, the company collaborated with customers around the globe to create a vehicle and ownership experience that next-gen Ranger owners can rely on for their businesses, family lives and adventure.In addition to revealing the next-generation Ranger, Ford also outlined its “always-on” commitment to customers, with a host of services centred around convenience. Living the ranger life“We’ve really packed a lot into the next-generation Ranger to inspire owners to do more of what they love to do, with features that encourage them to explore new horizons,” said Gary Boes, enterprise product line management director, global trucks. Ford calls this “Living the Ranger Life,” and it’s something shared by every designer and engineer involved in creating the next-generation Ranger.“Our team was focused on one goal – to make this Ranger the toughest and most capable we’ve ever created,” said Graham Pearson, Ranger vehicle programme director. “They put it through one of the most exhaustive global testing schedules we’ve ever developed and would not rest until we were satisfied that it was Built Ford Tough.” New look, new capabilitiesCustomer input was key to developing the next-generation Ranger’s rugged new look. Ford spent a lot of time with owners around the globe, conducting more than 5,000 interviews and dozens of customer workshops to understand how customers used their pickups and what they wanted and expected in the new Ranger.Visually, the next-generation Ranger is bold and confident, with a purposeful exterior that shares Ford’s global truck design DNA. The design features a defined new grille, and signature C-clamp headlight treatment at the front while a subtle shoulder line down the sides incorporates bolder wheel-arches that gives Ranger a sure-footed stance.Image suppliedFor the first time, Ford Ranger offers matrix LED headlights. At the back, the taillights are designed in harmony with the signature graphics on the front. Inside, the car-like cabin steps up, using premium soft-touch materials, and a prominent portrait-style centre touchscreen with Ford’s signature Synci 4 connectivity and entertainment system. New powertrain choicesThe next-gen Ranger will also come with a choice of proven single-turbo and the bi-turbo 2.0 inline four-cylinder diesels. The single turbo comes in two different performance levels and delivers power, torque and fuel economy, which is important to small business owners or commercial vehicle fleets. The bi-turbo engine is a more sophisticated, performance variant for customers who want more power but need to maintain fuel economy. In addition, the next-gen Ranger will be available with a tried and tested 2.3l EcoBoost four-cylinder that underpins a range of Ford global products and is a perfect choice for customers who prefer petrol propulsion. New transmission choices include an updated 10-speed auto or six-speed manual, complementing the current six-speed automatic.Improved ride and handlingTo develop the ride and handling expected of a truck customer’s use for a wide range of work, family and play – engineers focused on the fundamentals. Customers will have a choice of two four-wheel-drive systems, an electronic shift-on-the-fly system, or an advanced full-time 4x4 system with a reassuring set-and-forget mode, designed for capability when and where customers need it. Off-road recovery is made easier with prominent dual recovery hooks in the front bumper.Customer-focused interior featuresCustomers wanted a flexible, modern cockpit that caters to both work and family duties. So, Ranger needs to serve as both a workspace and a haven, providing smart and connected features with more comfort and storage options than ever before.The heart of the Ranger’s connective experience is the large 10.1-inch or 12-inch touchscreen in the centre stack. It complements the fully digital instrument panel and is loaded with Ford’s latest Sync4 system, which comes customer-ready with its voice-activated communications, entertainment and information systems. Image suppliedImage suppliedAdditionally, there’s an embedded factory-fitted modem, allowing connectivity on the go when linked with the FordPass App, so customers can stay connected to their world. FordPass enhances the ownership experience with features like remote start, vehicle status checks and remote lock and unlock functions via your mobile device.Manage that cargoIn addition, Ranger offers a new cargo management system designed with dividers to hold various sized items – like timber or toolboxes. Owners also can create smaller compartments to store objects, which would otherwise have to go in the cab, using a system of ultra-strong spring-loaded cleats that clip into rails bolted to each side of the cargo box. The tailgate can also double as a mobile workbench with an integrated ruler and clamp pockets to measure, grip and cut building materials.Personalise your RangerCustomers will be able to personalise their next-gen Ranger with a range of almost 600 fully factory-backed work, urban and adventure accessories, depending on the market. These accessories include those developed in collaboration with global off-road icon, ARB 4x4 Accessories. The next-generation Ranger will be built at Ford’s plants in Thailand and South Africa beginning in 2022, with other markets to be announced at a later date. Specific market launch details will be announced in due course.