It’s a concept that seems to be foreign and yet it can be the key to launching a successful business. In fact, reports show “75% of executives point to mentoring as playing key roles in their careers”.Before we tell you how to find a virtual mentor in 2022, let’s take a closer look at what they are and how entrepreneurs and startups could benefit from having one.What is a mentor?According to Wikipedia, “A Mentor is someone who teaches or gives help and advice to a less experienced and often younger person. In an organizational setting, a mentor influences the personal and professional growth of a mentee. What matters is that mentors have experience that others can learn from. “In simpler words, a mentor is a person with experience and knowledge on many aspects of running a successful business. The mentorship relationship between a mentor and entrepreneur is all about growth and development.Set and smash your goals with a business mentorWHY AN ENTREPRENEUR NEEDS A MENTOR1  Mentors can help you navigate your wayBecause a mentor is experienced, they have a firm grasp of better approaches you can take and what you need to have in place to achieve your goal. They have a sound understanding of the documents you need to start a business, how to expand your workforce and still remain profitable as well as structuring your teams and building a strong culture from the onset.2  Mentors help you clarify and set SMART goalsA mentor can help map out your SMART goals. These are objectives that you would like your business achieve within a set time. SMART goals setting stands for:SpecificMeasurableAchievableRelevantTime-sensitive goalsYou can set out your SMART goals and your mentor will hold you accountable for every milestone. For more details around setting SMART goals, see Velly Bosega’s article on setting and smashing your goals in 2022.3. Mentors can be a sounding board when faced with hard decisions or trying to overcome business challengesSometimes a fresh perspective is all you need to overcome any hurdle you are facing. Most mentors have vast experience in their field of expertise and can give great insights into the current industry, trends and market places. Not only can they help in hard times, but they can also bring a set of creative ideas to the table.4. Mentors can help connect you to other professionals to grow your networkDon’t underestimate the power of a strong network. It help’s present new business opportunities, referrals for your business, a new avenue to find suppliers and a gateway to talk about your brand.5. Mentors can inspire you and keep you focused.Did you know: Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook) was mentored by Steve Jobs. Jobs was mentored by Mike Markkula (early investor and executive at Apple).HOW TO FIND A VIRTUAL MENTOR IN SOUTH AFRICABook a quick briefing session with South Africa’s first virtual business consulting platform. It has been designed specifically for the local market and has over 300 business coaches and mentors across a range of fields and industries to help entrepreneurs and startups get off the ground.You can easily find and chat to any expert of your choice. Their consulting hours and rates are clearly displayed and all payments are handled through the platform.BENEFITS OF VIRTUAL MENTORING THROUGH STARTWISEFor experts:You can be a mentor on the side and during hours that suit you. By consulting virtually, you don’t need to spend time in trafficYou can contribute towards strengthening the SME market and help impart your knowledge to entrepreneurs across South Africa and receive payment for itPackage and offer your services to a wide network of over 1000 SME business ownersTo join our network of experts, book a demo hereFor entrepreneurs:You get affordable access to over 300 business mentors who have been carefully vettedYou can have multiple mentors to advise you on different aspects of your business.Select a mentor with expertise in a specific area of your business you need help with.To book a session with any of our consultants and mentors, click hereStartwise has done all the work for you. They have recruited the top industry leading professionals and you no longer have to risk being turned down.