The Dr JL Dube High School in KwaMashu, KwaZulu-Natal will soon have an entirely new infrastructure with enhanced facilities. At a groundbreaking ceremony at the school today, the Cotton On Foundation announced its commitment to rebuilding and upgrading this school into a world-class facility, designed to empower learners to reach their full potential. A refurbished infrastructure complete with digital learning spaces, sports facilities, additional staff, and ongoing support all form part of the Foundation’s plans to create a new future for this school that educates 1,280 learners. Furthermore, the Cotton On Foundation’s commitment to the school includes a feeding scheme, the introduction of sporting programmes, teacher training, supplementing operational costs and the provision of literacy materials for learners. Work on the physical and digital learning infrastructure commences later this month, with plans grounded in social and environmental sustainability. The rebuild includes implementing recycling stations for paper, plastic, glass, and cans, upcycling of material, repurposing as much demolition material as possible; all while maintaining the character of Dr JL Dube High by keeping key architectural features. Renewable energy, indigenous gardens and a water retention system will contribute to a reduced carbon footprint. Local contractors and SMMEs form part of the development team. The ceremony was attended by several dignitaries including Weziwe Hadebe, acting DDG: IDS (office of the MEC for Education in KwaZulu-Natal), Ward 40 Councillor Sithembiso Mzimela, Cotton On Foundation ambassador, world-renowned local actress Nomzamo Mbatha, and Cotton On country manager Natalie Wills. Mbatha delivered an impassioned speech in which she implored the learners to honour the opportunity that the school is providing to enable them to achieve their goals in life, and encouraged them to stay committed to their education, and to aim for the stars. “It is an honour to return to my hometown to attend this auspicious occasion which marks the beginning of a new chapter for Dr JL Dube High School,” said Mbatha. “On behalf of the community of KwaMashu, I would like to thank the Cotton On Foundation for investing in this school, knowing that education is key to creating a bright and promising future for our youth,” she added.  “The child is at the heart of everything we do at the Cotton On Foundation. In line with our Child’s Journey model, we are dedicated to creating secondary pathways, which is why we are so excited about our partnership with Dr JL Dube High School, our second school in the community of KwaMashu,” said Tara Stretch, manager, Cotton On Foundation. “Dr JL Dube High School is only a short walk from Ethekwini Primary, the first school we built in this area, and a school of choice for these learners as they transition to high school,” she added. For more information about the work of the Cotton On Foundation visit https://cottonongroup.com.au/the-good-we-do/cotton-on-foundation/