Source: Supplied.“Andres is a perfect fit for Doconomy, merging extensive experience, an unconventional mindset, and entrepreneurial drive. He represents a very reassuring addition to strengthen Doconomy's global ambitions in providing both corporations and individuals with tools to ensure responsible consumption and sustainable production," said Johan Pihl, chief innovation officer and Doconomy's co-founder.More recently elected as "No. 7 on Fast Company’s 2022 list of World’s 50 Most Innovative Companies", Doconomy is best known for its joint effort with Mastercard to combat climate change by enabling DO – a free and easy-to-use mobile banking service that lets users track, understand and reduce their CO₂ footprints through carbon offsetting. DO enables carbon offsetting by means of UN certified projects and - in addition to guiding users on how to make their consumption more sustainable - customers can apply for the physical, climate-friendly and biodegradable DO Mastercard payment card. The DO card tracks CO₂ emissions generated from our transactions and displays those numbers in a simple app.Vergara's appointment reinforces Doconomy's desire to further accelerate innovation-driven communication and growth, and marks yet another affirmation in the rapid growth of the company. Driving climate actionVergara, an accomplished international creative director will focus his talents on driving climate action through creative, strategic engagement. He will lead Doconomy's global marketing offering through new campaigns and strategic initiatives to further amplify banks', businesses', brands' and individuals' ability to take decisive climate action globally. “I have been close to the Doconomy family since their genesis and have seen them go from strength to strength in just three years. They are a world-class company born out of purpose and I am delighted to be to join them," Vergara said. "It is an incredible honour and privilege, and I look forward to continuing its growth and impact together with the founders and the amazingly talented Doconomy team."For more than 20 years, Vergara's creative leadership has seen expression in various global award-winning agencies such as BBDO Moscow, Proximity Russia, Impact BBDO Dubai, Publicis Stockholm, SCPF Barcelona, DDB Istanbul and Leo Burnett Chicago.  Vergara has won numerous industry recognitions in his career history, including Cannes Lions, One Show, Eurobest, New York Festival, EPICA and Dubai Lynx.He has worked in multiple markets with big-name clients like Coca-Cola, Beko, Ikea, Audi, CNN, Sony, Heineken, Koenigsegg, and Mastercard. He holds an MBA from the Berlin School of Creative Leadership.* Since 2018 Doconomy has created tools to calculate the real cost that our lifestyles have on the environment, by revealing the carbon and water footprint of every transaction. Four years later, the 2030 calculator, and  Lifestyle Calculator have all brought something new to the table, as have Åland Index, which is the world’s leading climate impact index which is live in 20 countries. It is a cloud-based impact service driving CO₂e and H₂O calculations for all digital financial transactions.Doconomy is fighting to make the EU 2030 Climate Target Plan of cutting 55% of greenhouse emissions an achievable, palpable reality.