Like any new year, the right resolutions will set the intentions for success in the quarters to follow. The second quarter of the year is actually the first quarter of the business year, a time to get a head start on the year, so that come Easter, you’ll be able to kick back with the peace of mind that your B2B marketing presence is in place.Invest in your B2B presence for the new financial yearKickstarting the new financial year by investing in a regular presence in the business media can compound your company’s reputation over time and B2B publishing offers an increasingly attractive space for companies and organisations to play.Take advantage of the New Biz Financial Year with promotional products to see you through 2022. Enquire now about these great promo combos:1.	BIZ PUBLISHER PACK: Easily plan and manage a content presence by resolving to publish an article per quarter in 2022. You can get a pack of three press releases per year to be archived in your Newsroom on Biz for only R5,500, or enquire about the full Biz Press Office Newsroom.2.	BIZ PROMOTED CONTENT: Get the most cost-effective advertorial presence on the market, when you tactically choose your press releases to appear as Promoted Content on Biz homepages for seven-day impact. Cost R5,400 (Marketing & Media), R3,900 (other portals).3.	BIZ WEBSITE AND MOBI ADVERTISING BUNDLE: 100,000 banner-ad impressions alongside daily news and top company stories, will be ideal to drive traffic to your content or event responses. Cost: R200 CPM.4.	NEWSLETTER ADVERTISING: Tie in any campaign messages with a newsletter presence where your ad messages and headlines can reach the inboxes of up to 601,844 subscribers across 19 sectors via up to 5.9 million newsletters per month. Cost: R600 per insert.5.	BIZ JOBS AND RECRUITER BUNDLE: Position your company as a top recruiter in the heart of the B2B media with featured jobs, employer branding, unlimited job posts and candidates across 19 sectors. For all the ways to kickstart your new financial year, sponsorships or tailored options in the heart of the B2B media on Biz, contact moc.ytinummoczib@selasWe wish you a happy year end and a prosperous new financial year ahead!