Tilly will be stepping into the role of training director while Rushid has been appointed as managing director of iLearn - together building upon the solid foundation set in the preceding 22 years. Richard Rayne, outgoing MD, will be transitioning into the role of CEO.Both Rushid and Tilly have played an integral part, as active and valued members of the iLearn management team, in steering the operational and strategic direction of the company. "After having been with the business for 15 years, it was a natural progression for these two to take up a more senior strategic role to manage the operational and growth requirements needed to take iLearn into the next phase of it's journey," says Rayne.Rushid Ally - managing directorTilly Mudaly - training directorThey officially stepped into their new roles on 1 March 2022, the beginning of our new financial year."I am honoured, energised, excited and definitely humbled by the opportunity to lead the company in this next chapter. Our purpose as a company is to Empower People to Empower Others and that along with the amazing people that I work with is what drives me," says Rushid Ally.Tilly adds: “It has been an incredible journey since joining the iLearn team in 2008. I have learnt, grown and flourished whilst pursuing my love for knowledge and empowerment. iLearn has become a home and my colleagues a family, united in our purpose and achieving impactful client and learner focused learning solutions. I am truly honoured to be given this phenomenal opportunity and am filled with excitement, aspiration, and gratitude.”“This is real transformation and we are delighted to have grown our people from within the company," adds Rayne. While confidently handed over his… Raynes, Richard's role as CEO will have a key strategic focus on new product development, innovation and expansion into new markets.The adoption of digital learning and learning online has risen above expectations, catalysed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Rayne’s focus will be on the development of the company’s strategies for leveraging and scaling this rising mega trend.