The partnership with AdMobilize is the latest move in Tractor’s aggressive drive to expand its audience datasets, partnering with platforms that will enable the media owner to demonstrate more intelligent insights. Says Remi Du Preez, commercial director at Tractor Outdoor, “Tractor is a member of the Outdoor Measurement Council (OMC), which allows us to access static demographical data of the audiences that we impress upon. Our next progression was to augment this with mobile tracking data that enables us to serve campaigns more intelligently and in real-time to relevant audiences.”The partnership with AdMobilize is the next step in the journey. “This will allow us to count, with complete accuracy, the number of consumers or vehicles in front of one of our billboards at any given time. This gives us powerful and instantaneous insight into the movements of our consumers at different times of the day, and allows us to ratify verified impressions.” AdMobilize’s technology integrates into camera systems installed at key sites, and can also determine the type of vehicle – such as a truck, car or motorbike. For specific site applications, the technology can even ascertain the difference between male and female consumers, and offer a respective age band, while complying with all data privacy laws. Jose Mora, CEO at AdMobilize, says that the company is excited to partner with Tractor Outdoor, bringing a deeper level of analytics and insights to the South African market. “Tractor is ahead of the curve in bravely exploring and adopting new technologies that will catalyse a fundamental shift in how the local outdoor media industry does business in the very near future. “Static or ‘flat’ data just doesn’t cut it anymore. Programmatic DOOH needs accurate and real-time data to fully take advantage of planning engines, optimise campaigns as they run and report back to advertisers to improve the quality of their campaigns and their end results.” Du Preez explains that Tractor’s ultimate aim is for its clients to benefit from the insights that this new dataset will offer. “This will bring massive opportunities for the future. We’re able to offer integrations with programmatic players, meaning that advertisers who buy programmatically will only spend based on the number of people who have seen their billboards, offering them a greater return on investment.” Advertisers will also have the opportunity to include dynamic triggers into their campaigns, meaning that their advertisements are only flighted when certain criteria are met. “We will also be integrating AdMobilize’s technology at the Victoria & Alfred Waterfront in Cape Town through ‘Innovocean’ – a joint venture between Tractor Media Holdings and Reveel that recently won the exclusive advertising rights for the iconic shopping destination. “Through incorporating dynamic triggers at key sites at the Waterfront, the AdMobilize technology would be able to identify when there is a high concentration of female consumers in the vicinity, and display relevant messaging – such as an ad from a cosmetic brand, for example.” Concludes Du Preez, “We’re heading towards a future where DOOH customers can look forward to a greater level of dynamism in their campaigns: more real-time data, more truth, more transparency, and ultimately, more impact. “We believe that by adding this new lens into our data arsenal, we can continue to raise the bar for our clients.”