Celebrating superior craftsmanship, The GAPP Awards is a competition for companies active in the Southern African printing, packaging and signage industry. Comprising 54 categories covering various printing techniques, it’s the largest and most comprehensive print quality awards in the world.At this year’s competition, VISI won gold in the Heatset Webfed – Magazines category. CTP Printers, VISI’s printing partner, entered the magazine into the competition to showcase their expertise. New Media’s production coordinator, Shirley Quinlan, was at the gala event at Emperors Palace in Johannesburg with CTP Printers’ sales manager Glen Witbooi to accept the trophy.VISI editor-in-chief Steve Smith says: “We call VISI ‘South Africa’s most beautiful magazine’ for a reason. We have an unwavering approach to curate only the best in design, decor and architecture, with big full-bleed images on high-quality paper. This has been instrumental in building our brand’s reputation and a loyal audience. Our uncoated paper is notoriously tricky to print on in terms of getting definition and bright colour. Kudos to Shirley and our creative director, Mark Serra, who painstakingly check every inch of every page before printing, and to our printer, CTP, for their incredible quality control. I am so thrilled that we are working with the best in the printing industry.”CTP Printers’ national sales manager, Paul Snowdon, adds: “We pride ourselves on our ability to understand and meet our customers’ requirements. VISI is such a fine showcase of top-quality images and creative layout. It gives us as printers the opportunity to showcase our craft and be part of a truly special end product that consumers love to hold and read. We have pushed boundaries to achieve this result in a marriage of creativity and technical excellence.”Readers have come to VISI magazine for the best of South African design, decor and architecture since 1998. In recent years, VISI has expanded on this offering, with an e-commerce store and the special editions VISI Kitchens, VISI Bathrooms and VISI Style. The brand also has a strong presence on Instagram, Pinterest, Twitter and Facebook, and produces a much-anticipated weekly mailer.VISI is created within New Media’s Story Station, a team of over 30 content experts working on some of the country’s biggest brands, as well as New Media’s own titles: VISI, Eat Out and Food24. The division’s head, Jeanine Boshoff, says: “This GAPP Award, and our recent wins at the International Content Marketing Awards in London and Eddie & Ozzie Awards in New York, are indicative of New Media’s expert storytelling in both print and digital. We are extremely proud of winning this award that highlights our uncompromising approach to quality and adding real value to our audiences.”