Makhubalo ‘Cuba’ Ikaneng and Sibahle KhwelaThis year, the Literature Champion Award was awarded to Makhubalo ‘Cuba’ Ikaneng for his work with young writers from Emphophomweni, Howick under UMngeni Municipality. Ikaneng, also known as the storyteller, loves helping children write their own stories through his project Young Authors Book Initiative (YABI). The festival awards this prize annually to a person/organisation committed to promoting a reading culture amongst young people and ensuring that even the poorest of South African communities have access to books.Every year the project takes 20 learners from schools in uMngeni Municipality and teaches them how to write with the help of authors. The learners then write short stories that are compiled into a book. They have published three books in the last four years and have worked with 47 learners thus far.Time of the Writer Festival focuses on mental health and suicide10 Mar 2022“This award, this recognition, today is an inspiration for me to continue what I’m doing. For the community to believe that everyone can make a difference and for every child growing up in a rural community to know that the sky is the limit,” says IkanengWhile looking back to another successful festival and looking forward to a new one, the festival decided to appoint a new curator for the 2023 festival. When recent graduate Sibahle Khwela took on an arts administration internship at the Centre for Creative Arts at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, little did she know that she would liaise with more than 100 authors selected to participate in this years’ Time of the Writer Festival. South African and international participants in the festival have lauded her with praise for her strong organisational skills, attention to detail and focused engagement throughout the Festival.“Sibahle is one of those rare people who walk into an internship programme and, within six weeks, takes full ownership of the project. She demonstrates a strong work ethic, professionalism and versatility that we are delighted to announce that we will be extending her internship till March 2023 so that she can take on the role of curator of the 26th edition of the Festival”, said Ismail Mahomed, director for the Centre for Creative Arts.Javett Art Centre exhibition articulates Apartheid through art23 Mar 2022Sibahle will be mentored by Mahomed and the Centre’s Senior Administrator and Poetry Africa curator, Siphindile Hlongwa, who have extensive experience in festival design, curation and cultural leadership.“There is a huge vacuum for Black women festival curators in South Africa. We believe that by extending her internship and granting her the opportunity to project lead and curate the 26th edition of the Time of the Writer festival, we can significantly contribute to opening up opportunities for Black South African women to take on festival curatorship roles”, said Hlongwa.Sibahle Khwela graduated cum laude with an undergraduate degree in Drama and Performance Studies at the Durban University of Technology. She was also the recipient of the Dean's Merit Award 2020 alongside 11 Awards received during her qualification. Other awards that she received during her studies include the Best Newcomer 2018, Leadership Award 2019 and the versatility Award 2020.