Source: www.unsplash.comThis colourful musical celebration will be set against the backdrop of a variety of creative stalls presented by Soweto’s famous Locrate Market - with delicious food and local arts and crafts on offer for a day of fun and culture.“While supporting the PNYH Festival goes along to promote and showcase our destination as a world-renowned creative, music, arts and cultural hub, the City of Joburg’s efforts at SMME development, support and job creation are equally important,” explains Councillor Nkululeko Mbundu, MMC for Economic Development, City of Johannesburg. “Indeed, this past week Joburg was named as one of the world’s best cities for Arts and Culture, achieving 38th place (ahead of Cape Town at number 43). This is according to the global publication Big 7 Travel. This is not only testament to the City’s 76 art galleries (which comprise the largest art collection in the country), but also to its iconic signature events which include several annual arts and culture festivals, as well as events like the Africa Rising Film Festival and the Festival of Lights at the Joburg Zoo,” says Mbundu.An exchange with Brian Temba: Nurturing the music industryBy Emily Stander 18 hours agoSMME’s supported at the festival include tour guides, tour operators, artists and crafters working at the market, as well as professionals offering experiences in the various aspects of a destination and urban exploration and adventure. “We look forward to taking advantage of the relaxed Covid restrictions and welcoming a great crowd to Con Hill this weekend, while tourism products in the area like the Reef and Aha Hotels and backpacker lodges also stand to benefit,” says Mbundu.“From Paris to New York, Montréal to Vancouver, Johannesburg to Los Angeles, the Paris New York Heritage Festival is an international festival, a journey to the heart of Africa and the African Diaspora’s art and music, and it will soon be landing in Joburg for the second time,” says Nicky Blumenfeld, aka DJ Nicky B and co-director of the festival.Elements of the festival include Conversations and Discussions on 4 March and Concerts, Collaborations and a Local Market on 5 March from 4pm to 12pm. The musical lineup includes acclaimed artists from the USA, France and Southern Africa coming together for the first time on stage together.“We have now, more than ever, the responsibility to build today for a better tomorrow!” emphasises Nicky B, who will be facilitating a series of conversations and exchanges exploring the theme of Human[U]nity. These are open to the public and guest speakers will include Festival director Benjamin Levy, music therapist Azah and others. #MusicExchange: Powerhouse Chantal Stanfield releases new singleBy Martin Myers 1 day agoThe musical lineup includes Simmy, The Brother Moves On, “Freedom Songs Project’’ feat. Msaki, Gontse Makhene, Malcolm Jiyane, Bholoja and students from the 'Morris Isaacson Centre for Music’. It will also be the first appearance of Raashan Ahmad in South Africa, who has worked with Blackalicious, Jurassic 5, The Roots, Aloe Blacc and Nicola Conte. Also adding to the festival’s magic is a performance by the evocative songstress Simmy, the dynamic duo Djeuhdjoah and Lieutenant Nicholson with Cool Affair. The DJ Line-up includes NickyB (Kaya959), 2lani the Warrior and Shamrock Guitor.The Freedom Songs ProjectThe Freedom Songs Project is an interactive live collaborative performance, curated specifically for the festival. In South Africa, struggle songs have played a major political role. Hugh Masekela once described the country’s journey to liberation as a ‘musical revolution’. Since the Covid pandemic, artists are once again using their voices to express the sentiments of the people and/or encourage hope, resilience and healing.The Brother Moves On - a musical art ensemble from Johannesburg - will perform as the backdrop for guest appearances from acclaimed artists. These guests include South African singer-songwriter from the Eastern Cape, Msaki, as well as Swaziland’s Bholoja. Also joining the project are South African master percussionist and composer Gontse Makhene, and 16 students from Soweto’s iconic institution, the 'Morris Isaacson Centre for Music’ in Soweto. Musically directed by Siyabonga Mthembu and Mthunzi Mvubu this performance will feature: The Brother Moves On, Msaki, Raashan Ahmad, Gontse Makhene and many others.The festival will take place from 3-5 March 2022. For tickets and more festival information, go here.