Image supplied: The #SheUntamed ambassadorsThe docuseries, which aims to celebrate the untamed spirit of women who are passionate about mountain biking, cycling and living an active lifestyle, narrates the stories of six well-known adventurers, athletes, businesswomen, mothers, cyclists and the Last Lioness on how they test their endurance against the most formidable opponent, the event that measures all. Absa aims to shift the face of cycling by bringing possibility to life - reigniting the initiative and gearing women up to break down barriers and just do the extraordinary. Victory is relative. For the Absa #SheUntamed ambassadors, it means getting to the starting line, being an inspiration, finding balance and choosing not to be put in a single lane. #BehindtheSelfie: South African actress Sanaa ShaikBy Emily Stander 4 hours ago As over 1,000 riders gear up to tackle the gruelling eight-day route, from 20 to 27 March 2022, 22 #SheUntamed women will be getting ready to participate in the inaugural women-only Epic Tripper session.  “Absa’s long-standing association with the Absa Cape Epic has given us the chance to not only facilitate Africa’s Untamed Mountain Biking Race, the premier mountain bike stage race in the world but also to actively drive positive change in the sport of cycling," says Absa’s head of corporate affairs services, Tina Venter. “The docuseries gives aspiring cyclists an opportunity to get a feel of how the #SheUntamed movement is ready to level the playing field because that’s Africanacity.“ The first episode of the three-part docuseries aired on 11 March 2022 on DStv channel 206 (VR1) and 209 (VR4). The episode, Pioneers, focuses on the journey of three riders – Buhle Beauty Ngobese and Remofilwe Moeketsi, the first black South African women’s duo to finish the Absa Cape Epic as Team Absa riders, and the Last Lioness, Hannele Steyn, and her journey. Netflix and Unesco announce film competition winners1 day ago IT specialist and #SheUntamed ambassador, Remofilwe Moeketsi says, “I started cycling in 2018 as a new sporting challenge in my life and, honestly speaking, it has been an overwhelming journey filled with excitement and a lot of obstacles. Ever since I started cycling, my life has changed for the better and I have completed a few rides. Now I have my eye on reaching Epic Legend status.” The second episode is titled Balance and we will see three #SheUntamed ambassadors, Dr Phathokuhle Zondi, Letshego Zulu and Carli Cooke talk about how they balance their demanding careers, family life and still find time to ride while doing it in style.  The three women took it on themselves not to stay in the traditional lane given to women and do what they love. Carli Cooke, Absa’s media relations and strategy manager, has completed numerous rides and balance is the only tool that she uses to successfully complete the rides that she has entered.  SA Sports Awards winners announced2 days ago“Balance plays an important role in my life. Being a rider, managing my career and family requires a lot of time and attention, therefore working around a schedule makes life much easier and I can get things done on time,” says Cooke. “This campaign has allowed me to be myself and identify things that I never knew I could do or even participate in.” The docuseries closes off with the last episode titled Victory, which features all the #SheUntamed ambassadors.