Image supplied: The Basadi in Music Awards saw many music powerhouses walk the red carpetThe music industry turned up in its finery on International Women’s Day as cameras clicked, bubbly flowed and fabulous gowns stole the limelight. The awards, founded by Hloni Modise, an entertainment entrepreneur, aim to honour and celebrate the excellence of women in the music industry as singers, performers, composers, producers and other fields. The nominees and winners are voted for by the public. Among the dignitaries in attendance were Dr Mpho Phalatse, the mayor of Johannesburg and industry powerhouses such as Abigail Kubheka, Linah Ebony Ngcobo, Penny Lebyane and Gloria Bosman. New talent, Cici, Candice Modiselle, Ntombee Ngcobo Mzolo, Maleh and Ayanda Jiya dazzled on the red carpet.  Image supplied: The Basadi in Music Awards launch saw performances from many artistsMusician and actress KB Motsilanyane MCd the glittering event. The all-female lineup of performers featured electrifying performances by Makhadzi, Holly Rey, Nhlanhla Mafu, Candy Tsamandebele, Brenda Mtambo, Boohle, Winnie Mashaba and DJ Mami - while DJ Lerato Kganyago closed off the programme with a set. The nominees will be announced in May while the gala awards evening is scheduled for August, in time for Women’s Month in South Africa. Chief marketing officer, Tiyani Maluleke, said, “As team Sampra, we are incredibly proud to be part of this brand because of everything that it represents and everything that it seeks to achieve. The work you have started is to be commended. We’d like to congratulate you on this momentous achievement and we look forward to a great and lasting partnership." Cotton Festival postponed to later this year1 day agoModise commented, “It all started as an idea that I put on paper and it looked big, impossible and unrealistic. When I spoke to people, they said it was a great idea. It’s unreal that yesterday we launched an idea whose time is overdue. I’m humbled by the support from our generous sponsors and the industry that has embraced this initiative. Big things happen when women pull together. This is for all young girls with big dreams and are afraid. I wish they could look at yesterday's launch and realise that it’s possible. We are Basadi.”  To submit an entry, send and SMS with a code for a category found here and name of the artist to 49960.SMSs cost R2 and free SMSs do not apply. T's and C's apply.