Tony Gulisano, global chief growth officer, The One Club for CreativityThe One Club for Creativity announced his passing with great sadness. In his honour, The One Club has established the Tony Gulisano Memorial Fund.  Donations will go to support the club’s ONE School and ONE Production programs, as well as shared with his family.“Tony was one of the most influential people in the creative community who never looked for the spotlight himself,” said Kevin Swanepoel, CEO, The One Club.  “He was the absolute nicest, most selfless person who never asked for anything except how he could help others, which he did over the past four decades for so many creatives around the world.  I’m very fortunate to have had Tony as a close colleague, trusted confidant and advisor, and very dear friend.  Our deepest condolences go out to his family, we will miss him greatly.”The One Club will pay tribute to Gulisano at The One Show 2022 awards ceremony on 20 May during Creative Week in New York, and host an event for the industry to celebrate his life in the summer.A legendary figureGulisano, 70, is a legendary figure in the global creative community, where, during his 40 years at international awards programmes he forged close professional and personal relationships with thousands of top creatives around the world. He entered the industry in 1982 with the Clio Awards, where he spent 26 years and served as managing director.  After four years of consulting with London International Awards, he joined The One Club in 2015.  Gulisano played a key role in growing international visibility and industry involvement for the nonprofit organisation’s global programming.  He helped start and run the club’s ONE School free portfolio program for Black creatives and ONE Production diversity program, as well as its monthly “A Creative Perspective” video series featuring the views of some of the industry's most interesting and celebrated creatives.He played a significant role in annual jury selection for The One Show, ADC Annual Awards, and One Asia Creative Awards, and was pivotal in assembling 21 global creative leaders to serve on the club’s latest International Board of Directors, announced last week.Services will be held on Tuesday, 29 March 29 11am Saint Anthony of Padua church in New York.