According to AC Nielsen and the Interactive Advertising Bureau, total adspend for SA in 2020 was just over R41bn, with a 18% y/y growth in digital media. Due to Covid and shifting consumer behaviour, we have seen a decline in spend in TV, radio, OOH, print and cinema - and a huge increase in digital spend, especially in streaming digital video and audio channels.As marketers, we still use the 'traditional' and 'digital' terminology in large part because the market still talks in this lexicon. But the reality is that we have moved on to thinking about channels in terms of the strategies and messaging we are planning. We have also begun using the term 'tradigital' when referring to traditional media that now offers digital components.We will explore this new integrated marketing space and delve into what the future looks like.Let’s Talk Digital features every second Thursday on Bizcommunity Marketing & Media homepages and via https://talkdigitalza.co.za/, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn and band.link, iono.fm.Let’s Talk Digital features every second Thursday on Bizcommunity Marketing & Media homepages and via https://talkdigitalza.co.za/, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn and band.link, iono.fm.Audrey Naidoo is head digital marketing at Absa. A digital activist, podcaster, influencer, public speaker & and members of various professional bodies: IAB Brand Council member, MMA, CMO Advisory Council for Africa & MASA. Naidoo owns a podcast called LetsTalkDigital which aims to educate, share and open up digital conversations in the industry. Naidoo is a professional marketer with extensive experience in the broader digital ecosystem with a focus on commercialisation, data, tech, analytics, creative, strategy and digital marketing transformation.Tyran De Beer is the creative producer for Let’s Talk Digital. A jack of all things digital and technical, aspiring to master marketing and finance trades. His passion lies in data, analytics, tech and measurement. He is the digital consultant at Absa and is responsible for driving the commercialisation of digital efforts across the enterprise. Previous experience has been on the agency side with a focus on media strategy, performance and ROI with a strong inclination to Google Ads.