As South Africa, and central South Africa, slowly enters what could cautiously be labelled as ‘recovery’, the time is ripe for audiences to support their beloved artists on stage. OFM and Bloemfontein Courant are proud to be associated with Bloem in Concert, featuring the cream of local talents from the City of Roses. Produced by Marlou Strydom, in association with Pacofs, the performance will take place at 7pm on 19 March 2022 at the Sand du Plessis Theatre in Bloemfontein. The concert will feature Cezanne Yzelle, Gerduan Kemp, Mario Lategan, Ella Kotze, Corneil Müller, Lise-Maré Markgraaf and Arend Brink Jr., accompanied by an 11-piece ensemble, under the baton of musical producer and arranger Heinrich Lategan. Celebrating the talents of local musical celebrities, Bloem in Concert will feature original singles by the singers as well as collaborative works that will feature them as never heard before. Bloem in Concert will also feature a range of debut live performances, such as Anton Esterhuyse’s Song of Resilience, released in December and specially arranged for the performance. “It is exciting to think a staged show can take place once again in one of South Africa’s premier venues. Marlou and his team have put together something very special. OFM and Bloemfontein Courant are thrilled to be part of this event,” says Nick Efstathiou, CEO of the Central Media Group, which has interests in OFM and Bloemfontein Courant. Strydom explains that Bloem in Concert is not just a passion project: “It is a movement that I want to initiate in Bloemfontein to support the return and progression of music in Bloemfontein. We have so many great musicians, artists and singers and I just decided that it is time to give them a proper platform for a proper performance. For the first time in two years, Bloemfontein will be able to experience such a grandiose performance with world-class musicians and singers. Join us for this once-in-a-lifetime performance!” Tickets are available at the Pacofs ticket office at R100 per person or R80 per person for group bookings of five or more. For more information, contact az.oc.mfo@gnitekram.