Image by Hugh Mdlalose: Bavikile NgemaThe exhibition will be launched at the Luthuli Museum in Groutville on 31 March at 12pm and will be exhibited throughout April. Working within the boundary of KwaZulu-Natal, Sounds in Context, or uMongo Msindo, considers ‘hyper locality’ as a tool to disrupt the conditions of ‘internationalism’. It invites audiences and custodians of age-old music traditions on a sojourn of music-making and consumption, with a particular focus on the relationship between player and instrument. Both entities conjoin to form a vessel that transmits sound, heritage and frequencies.Shortstraw tour heads to Cape Town24 Mar 2022The five protagonists of this undertaking are amongst some of the oldest instrument players in the region. They liberate overlooked narratives through six instruments from the comfort of their homes through their personal histories. This installation brings musicians into conversations with their instruments through videos, textiles that function as interactive wall pieces and a QR portal that expands on their work- all presented via a mobile museum structure.“It has been a long-time dream of our company to bring indigenous instruments, their players and the stories to life. This is such an important piece of archival work that we are beyond excited to share it finally”, says Mzwandile Ntsele, curator in collaboration with his wife and business partner Marlyn Ntsele.Image by Hugh Mdlalose: Bhekani NgcamuThey have big dreams for the exhibition. “We would like this exhibition to be seen by as many people as possible. We ensured it is a mobile structure so it can easily tour and other instruments could be added to the concept. We will also make sure learners get invited to this exhibition so that we can share the importance and endless possibilities of indigenous instruments with a younger generation,” says Marlyn Ntsele.The exhibition will run until 20 April and is open from Monday to Saturday 8.30am to 3.30pm and Sundays from 11.30am to 2.30pm. Entry is free of charge.