Bernice West, Jannes Erasmus and Nadia Beukes will all be part of Die Gelofte: 'n Musiekblyspel Die Gelofte: ‘n Musiekblyspel is by Johan Vorster and written by acclaimed scriptwriter Jannes Erasmus. It follows the events leading up to the day of the covenant (vow) during the Battle of Blood River.  When Aimee and Ali, two high school drama students, discover letters in the basement of the theatre, the story of Sarel Cilliers and the Voortrekkers’ journey across the Drakensberg to the promised land unfolds; a love story between two young people who seem to have an impossible happy ending. It is a historical piece, with a modern approach, that reveals something about history but also brings hope and teaches life lessons. Aside from Erasmus, who is also the director, the music and lyrics were created by Johan Vorster and Jacomien de Wet, while Francois Lessing is in charge of orchestration and music direction. All the Fleur du Cap Theatre Awards winners!2 days ago“When you see the musical, you will understand why it was important to us to tell this story. Parallels are drawn that are still relevant today. Land, family ties and the gruesome reality of life,” said Erasmus. “It is a privilege to hold the pen, but I also have a great responsibility to sit in the director’s chair with humanity and compassion. History cannot be rewritten, but it can be approached from a different perspective.” Vorster and De Wet added, “Writing this musical has changed our lives. We initially thought that the story was only a part of our history, but it is so much more. We believe that it will touch the lives of every person who watches it. There was hope for us in 1838 and there is still hope for us today.” The production also boasts a star-studded cast, including Johan Vorster, Nadia Beukes, Bernice West, Eddie de Jager, Zöricke Snyman, Jacomien de Wet, Ilán van Staden and more. Vorster, a renowned songwriter and producer is returning to the stage after he decade of working behind the scenes and used to be part of the Sama award-winning group, Eden. He has also been attending Bible School for two years in preparation for this role. Baxter Zabalaza Theatre Festival returns next month23 Mar 2022 Beukes is looking forward to being back on stage after two years of lockdown. “The creative team behind this piece is extremely talented and the music is beautiful. I truly believe that this play will touch people’s hearts. It is also heart-warming to see that AfriForum Theatre’s support of the arts and hopefully this is just the beginning of big things to come,” she said.  The show will be running from 6 to 29 May 2022 at the AfriForum Theatre in Pretoria. Tickets cost R350 per person and are available here.