During the past few years, the company transformed its corporate and consumer businesses operations into two strong businesses. The launch of WithSecure™ follows plans announced in February 2022 to separate into two companies, both with increased customer focus and relevancy, along with clarified value propositions.WithSecure™ sets off a new era for corporate security products and solutions, while consumer security products and services remain available for both end-users and partners through the existing F-Secure brand. WithSecure™ leverages the company’s decades of proven security expertise, pragmatic research, and instinctive technologies. This combination allows the company to focus on achieving security outcomes that enable partners and customers.According to WithSecure™ Corporation’s CEO Juhani Hintikka, the company’s new 'co-security' paradigm reflects the need to address today’s security challenges through good partnership.“Ultimately, complexity is creating huge problems in information security. By working together, we can stop approaching security as controls. Instead, we will implement technology and services that work in a business context and deliver proven outcomes,” said Hintikka. “In simple terms, no one that puts their trust in WithSecure™ should experience a serious loss due to a cyberattack or crime. Our name is our promise,” added Hintikka.WithSecure™ aims to achieve this goal through a portfolio that combines world-class human expertise, innovative new approaches, and instinctive technology to counter active attacks. The portfolio consists of cloud-native and intelligent endpoint protection, cloud content protection for Salesforce, managed detection and response, and a broad range of cybersecurity consulting services.Thanks to a strong heritage, WithSecure™ enjoys an extensive network of partners, clients, and customers along with vast experience working with the information security community to solve today’s challenging and novel threats with a co-security mindset.“The greatest brands are based on a simple core idea. In everything we do we believe in good partnership where good means trusted, honest, knowledgeable and always prioritising the relationship over own agendas and short-term transactional business,” said WithSecure™ CMO Ari Vänttinen. “In a world where cybersecurity means more than ever, our co-security approach enables us to build and sustain digital trust in society for everyone’s benefit.”Through recent initiatives, WithSecure™ has demonstrated that it is a purpose-driven brand. These efforts include collaborating with CMI Martti Ahtisaari Peace Foundation for digital peacemaking efforts, working with the CyberPeace Institute to protect vulnerable communities, and actively training the next generation of cybersecurity experts.More information on WithSecure™ is available on its website: www.withsecure.com.About WithSecure™ WithSecure™, formerly F-Secure Business, is cybersecurity’s reliable partner. IT service providers, MSSPs and businesses – along with the largest financial institutions, manufacturers, and thousands of the world’s most advanced communications and technology providers – trust us for outcome-based cybersecurity that protects and enables their operations. Our AI-driven protection secures endpoints and cloud collaboration, and our intelligent detection and response is powered by experts who identify business risks by proactively hunting for threats and confronting live attacks. Our consultants partner with enterprises and tech challengers to build resilience through evidence-based security advice. With more than 30 years of experience in building technology that meets business objectives, we’ve built our portfolio to grow with our partners through flexible commercial models.WithSecure™ Corporation was founded in 1988, and is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd.About CyberVision Pty Ltd CyberVision Pty Ltd is a WithSecure™ distribution company in Africa that conducts IT security value-added business throughout Africa through a variety of resellers of various sizes and differing specialisations. The key personnel at CyberVision have been working with F-Secure (WithSecure™’s previous name) for between 23 and 28 years with experience in data and network security and have supplied services to many types of organisations in Africa, ranging from SMEs to large banks, retailers, manufacturers, insurers and government departments. Working with leading organisations in industry has resulted in an extensive understanding of security, allowing for a competitive advantage when it comes to ensuring that the right solutions are in place to adequately secure the networks of organisations of all sizes and types.CyberVision has full-service teams capable of providing resellers and their customers with the necessary support services to ensure that their endpoint protection, vulnerability scanning and penetration testing is conducted efficiently and effectively to help prevent security breaches on their networks. The WithSecure™ Elements Vulnerability Management, Endpoint Detection and Response and Rapid Detection Service (RDS), as well as other previously named F-Secure solutions are relied upon for much of CyberVision’s security expertise in mitigating risks and helping organisations manage complex security challenges with a business-focused man-and-machine combined approach. These solutions are also easy for organisations to manage in-house with a flexible usage-based SaaS option that makes it very affordable to put to the test and implement when needed.More information on CyberVision Pty Ltd is available on its website: https://www.cybervision.co.za/