Source: Danette BreitenbachLaunched by in 2017, as the world’s first independent verification technology platform for DOOH, this technology has been in operation at market scale in Australia and New Zealand, where third party verification is now considered a requirement for DOOH campaign delivery.Established best-practice“The work we have done in Australia over the last five years to establish best-practice standards for verified campaign delivery, is a proof case for the global sector,” says Tom Richter, Seedooh CEO and founder. “Transparency and confidence ultimately benefits all participants as OOH matures to compete with other digitised media - whilst remaining the only truly broadcast channel. “We believe that 100% accurate and verified campaign data should be available on demand to both buyers and sellers, via a low-impact, highly secure platform,” he explains. Unlocking the potential of Out of Home in AfricaBy Danette Breitenbach 9 Feb 2022Erik Warburg, marketing director at Outdoor Auditors agrees: “Digital OOH is now receiving 20% of OOH investment spend in South Africa and is growing fast (25% YOY), as more sites are digitised and advertisers take advantage of the premium locations and flexibility that sophisticated networks offer.” He adds that it’s important that advertisers know what they are getting in return for their DOOH investment - just as it is in every other media channel. “Seedooh’s technology creates complete transparency of what is being displayed in the real world, in granular detail, so Outdoor Auditors can provide advertisers with; real time, granular analysis and rapid remediation support if there are any variances from what has been booked, plus comprehensive post-campaign reporting,” he explains. Piloting the technologyOutdoor Auditors has been piloting the Seedooh platform on Tractor Outdoor’s DOOH campaigns for a few months and the network visibility has been enlightening and well received.“We were pleased to be involved in the pilot with Outdoor Auditors and to be South Africa’s first Seedooh verified network,” says Simon Wall, CEO at Tractor Outdoor. “Our customers naturally expect that they will get what they pay for and we are committed to demonstrating that they do - via third party verification that works seamlessly for all parties. “On occasions where campaigns might be affected by a technical issue, human error or power outage, instant and verified confirmation of the facts is invaluable to make sure we can address this in a timely and efficient manner,” he says.  Wall also sees the long term value for the OOH industry.  “We agree that the future potential of OOH will be enhanced by greater accountability and confidence.”   Low impact and scalableRichter says the tech has been designed and proven to be low impact and scalable. “While third party oversight of campaign delivery is a baseline requirement, it is of equal importance to the ongoing sector’s growth, that any independent verification process adds value, rather than disruption, cost and confusion to the process of campaign delivery.