To head up and oversee this important new relationship for the agency, Grey has appointed Bridget Langley as Business Unit Director.As a highly motivated and results driven manager in the communications industry, Bridget has a proven track record of understanding and delivering to her client’s needs.  “Bridget is a highly skilled marketing communications professional having spent more than 25 years running the Standard Bank account at TBWA Hunt Lascaris. We are thrilled to have someone of Bridget’s immense experience in financial services brand communications to oversee the RMB business. Most importantly, Bridget fits right in to the Grey culture,” commented Paul Jackson, CEO Grey Advertising Africa.In her time at TBWA Hunt Lascaris, Bridget moved through the organisation starting in the below-the-line and direct marketing business as an account manager and progressing to business director of one of the largest accounts in the Johannesburg office and the TBWA global network. The client team that Bridget will work with varies from junior marketing to senior executives at Rand Merchant Bank, both in South Africa as well as on the African continent.“I grow and mentor whomever I can. I was lucky enough to be taught by some great people and I’d like to share that with others.  It’s in everything we do – better briefs, better briefings, better discussion, better work, better relationships, more integrated, more immersed,” explains Bridget Langley.The characteristics Bridget values most are: honesty, integrity, courage, and drive. She lives by those characteristics and is also driven, hardworking, loyal, passionate, and not scared to roll up her sleeves. One of her key roles and abilities is to solve problems in an agile and responsive manner, which she views as being imperative in dynamic business management.“There are amazing people with amazing brains that I get to interact with every day – so where is it going? Where they can take us. Now that’s exciting – it’s all about possibilities.”