Martí will play a key role in driving growth for their EMEA Data Science and Strategy Solutions business. He comes to Blend with over 20 years of experience in the data, technology, and analytics space, working with global CPG, Retail and Healthcare organisations and developing sales teams across both local and regional organisations. “We have big aspirations to grow Blend360 organically as well as through strategic investments and acquisitions,” said Dimosthenis Kostopoulos, SVP of business development for Blend’s EMEA business. “Xavi has an impressive background of opening new channels and markets. With twenty plus years of international business development experience in the technology and analytics industry, Xavi brings the expertise needed to help the company achieve greater revenue growth, further fueling Blend360’s global expansion.”As vice president of business development, Martí will drive global penetration of the Data Science and Customer Experience business by leveraging his knowledge of the market and subject matter expertise, fueling the ambitious global growth objectives of the company.“Since the acquisition of Engagement Factory by Blend360, our prime focus for EMEA has been strengthening our go-to-market and sales leadership team,” said Jos Caelers, founder of Engagement Factory, a Blend360 company. “Adding data engineering, business intelligence, and data sciences to our core capability set has helped us support our clients achieve their goals faster and more efficiently. We now want to scale this capability to new clients and new markets; Xavi will be instrumental in achieving these goals.”On his decision to join Blend360, Martí underscored his passion for driving client success with data and analytics. “In an extremely unpredictable market environment, the winners will be among those who can leverage data assets, technology, and analytics to be prepared for the challenges ahead,” says Martí. “Companies that use data science as an enabler to predict what’s coming and act faster than the competition will emerge as the winners in the marketplace. Joining Blend360 has been a conscious decision in my mission to support clients in building custom capabilities suited to transform their data assets into the fuel to their success.”About Blend360Blend360 is a leading provider of data science and talent solutions services, serving Fortune 500 companies. It continues to be awarded as one of the fastest-growing companies, making the Inc. 5000 List of Fasting Growing Companies every year they have been in business. They have over 500 employees with offices domestically in NY, MD, CO, and CA and internationally throughout the EMEA region.Contact: Grace O’Hara, marketing manager: moc.063dnelb@araho.ecarg.About Engagement Factory, a Blend360 company  Engagement Factory, a Blend360 company, is a fast-growing marketing science and data solutions company. We offer the opportunity to work in an innovative, scale-up culture where everything you do matters. With world-class capabilities, solutions, and incredible services, Engagement Factory strives to help large EMEA B2B and B2C companies solve the puzzle of data-driven business acceleration.