Eduvos Durban Campus, Umhlanga RidgeThe Eduvos mission of “shaping potential, student by student, for Africa’s prosperity” is represented by their 12 state-of-the-art campuses, expert academic staff, and innovative learning model. By offering what they call “blended learning”, students are able to benefit from in-class instruction combined with online activities. This flexible approach means that students have the freedom to learn at their pace, and can benefit from campus and online resources. The Information Technology Higher Certificate programmes specialising in 4IReven have monthly starting dates so that  students have the flexibility to start their studies whenever they wish, and at their own pace. Eduvos also offers part-time and short learning programmes so that working professionals already pursuing their career can upskill and progress in their own time. Lifelong learning needs to become a way of life in the dynamic business world in which we operate. Part-time programmes include relevant, practical content that can be applied to many different areas of the workplace including information technology, accounting, business management and so much more. Eduvos sets itself apart from competition with their “campus of the future” model, transforming learning spaces into collaborative think-tanks, where learning takes place both in and outside the classroom environment. The higher education provider aims to prepare its graduates for the world of work, and their campuses of the future are where industry, technology, lifestyle and learning meets. These thriving campuses across South Africa are enriched with staff, academics and lecturers who bring real-world expertise to the classroom. With over 20 Doctorates to their names, the academic staff instruct over 35 accredited and internationally recognised qualifications across Commerce, Law, Sciences, IT, Humanities and Arts and Design. The February 2022 intake saw Edvuos enrol 3,245 students in the Faculty of Commerce and Law, 1,907 students in the Faculty of Information Technology, 1,464 students in the Faculty of Humanities and the Arts and 558 students in the Faculty of Applied Science (Biomedicine and Biotechnology Management). With Eduvos, it’s clear that students can adopt learning styles that are best suited to them, and in facilities that will set them on a path for success in the working world. Don’t miss out on the opportunity to enrol with Eduvos for their upcoming May intake. You can apply online at eduvos.com or visit any of their 12 campuses nationwide for full-time or part-time studies.