Endometriosis is a painful condition that occurs when tissue similar to the uterus lining (womb) grows outside of the uterus. This condition involves the ovaries, fallopian tubes, and the tissue lining the pelvis and severely impacts women’s quality of life...  Endometriosis symptoms Common signs and symptoms of endometriosis may include:  Painful periods (dysmenorrhea) and cramping before and during your menstrual period.  Pain during intercourse.  Pain with bowel movements or urination during your menstrual period.  Heavy bleeding during your menstrual period or bleeding between periods.  Infertility - endometriosis is often first diagnosed in those seeking infertility treatment.  Other signs and symptoms may include fatigue, diarrhoea, constipation, bloating, or nausea. What causes endometriosis? The following conditions may cause endometriosis:  Problems with the menstrual period flow. Heavy menstrual flow is the most likely cause of endometriosis, where tissue shed during the period flows through the fallopian tube into other body areas, such as the pelvis.  Genetic factors. Endometriosis can be inherited in the genes as it runs in families.  Stress. Clinical studies indicate that endometriosis is associated with high levels of chronic stress.  Immune system problems. A problem with the immune system may make the body unable to recognise and destroy endometrial-like tissue growing outside the uterus.  Hormones. The hormone oestrogen appears to promote endometriosis. Tips for dealing with endometriosis at work  Manage your stress levels. Consider mindful techniques, but do what works best for you.  Invest in a wireless heating pad that is easy to use and always on hand when needed.  Stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water that might help reduce bloating and cramping.  Avoid drinks that contain caffeine to manage your estrogen levels.  Cook your food in advance to ensure you always have healthy meal options.  Be organised and plan to remain in a reasonable frame of mind.  Be realistic with deadlines, allowing space for unplanned projects or events.  Find a mental health professional you can trust. How to prepare for a doctor's appointment Endometriosis symptoms are manageable. Talk to your doctor if you’re experiencing severe or persistent pain.  If you think you might have endometriosis, speak to a doctor before trying to manage the symptoms alone. Intercare healthcare professionals can help with early diagnosis and treatment. Our doctors can also refer to a network of mental, medical, or fertility specialists. Visit our website for more information or to book an appointment at a facility near you.