The division is a dedicated service stream of Engagement Factory. It will focus on the visual and content-related needs of our clients, in alignment with the data-driven marketing efforts we offer (campaign optimisation, customer experience, and social media strategy, to name a few). The function of the department focuses on content production.  It adds an outside artistic perspective to both the functional and operational deliveries of assets. Content and creative services includes written content, video production, graphic design as well as website, UX/UI design and consulting. As Engagement Factory, a Blend360 company’s only female of colour in the executive team, her achievement is not only an objective career milestone, but also an inspiring achievement for many. Fatima has worked for many multi-national organisations including British Airways and Old Mutual to name a few, including an extensive portfolio in both retail as well as media. She has also notably rebranded a commercial radio station from P4 10.4FM to HeartFM, increasing its visibility in the marketplace as well as growing the listenership significantly. "We wish Fatima only success in her new role. We're confident that she will be able to grow and develop the agency's content and creative services, and, in particular, it's channel marketing offering. She is responsible for a number of key accounts in our EF portfolio, and has over 15 years’ experience in connecting companies and audiences in marketing and communications. Combined with her experience in working both agency and client side, she is a strong relationship builder, leader and strategic thinker," says Jos Caelers, senior VP, EMEA, for EF, a Blend360 Company. Fatima joined EF in February 2017 and has been with Engagement Factory for five years. She has been responsible for EF’s marketing and campaign services team. Her incline keeps on having an upward trajectory! We wish you all the best and more success in your new, impressive, role, Fatima Ross! About Engagement Factory, a Blend360 company Engagement Factory, a Blend360 company, is a fast-growing marketing science and data solutions company. We offer the opportunity to work in an innovative, scale-up, culture where everything you do matters. With world-class capabilities, solutions, and incredible services, Engagement Factory strives to help large EMEA B2B and B2C companies solve the puzzle of data-driven business acceleration.