The social media game is rapidly developing and increasingly assuming a significant role in the lives of consumers. According to Yavisha and Krishna (2013) in a study on social media browsing and consumer behaviour, 92% of the respondents indicated they use social media platforms to search information and advice on products before purchasing. A further 78% indicated that social media directly influences their purchasing behaviour. Previously, social media represented online applications such as Instagram, WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube where users shared their opinions, insights, experiences, and perspectives with one other. Marketers now use the platform to connect and communicate with consumers and essentially influence their purchasing decisions (Yavisha and Krishna, 2013).Today, there are 20–22 million people in South Africa who own a smartphone which, in turn, amounts to one third of the country’s population (Statista, 2022). Consumers are migrating from traditional media formats to social media apps. Equipped with smartphones and internet access, consumers now have reams of information at their fingertips and the ability to instantly share and explore this information among their trusted online networks and peers (Deloitte, 2022).For this reason, consumers are becoming more demanding, time-driven, individualistic, information and content intensive (Yavisha and Krishna, 2013). They are prioritising brands which emphasise elements such as being eco-friendly, organic, and responsibly sourced. For example, one South African organic and natural products online store named Faithful to Nature, has reported an impressive 70% average growth over the past three years (Deloitte, 2022).According Sheth and Mittal (2004) modern-day consumers value prepurchase support and actively search for information on social media platforms, which directly impacts their purchasing performance. Research has revealed that 80% of online users/consumers trust the judgement and opinions of a friend or social media influencers formally known as 'prosumers'. Up to 50% of consumers read other customer reviews whilst spending time doing online shopping and 16% have been influenced by direct online information when making purchases (Yavisha and Krishna, 2013). Gone are the days of impromptu buying based on one’s solitary opinions and feelings, or so it seems. There has been a significant growth in social media influencers (prosumers) who generate online content by reviewing new products and services and presenting it from a personal perspective. These are real people with real experiences and with no hidden agenda as opposed to marketers who aim to generate sales by candy-coating the products and services they have been tasked to sell. This has resulted in an informational power shift from marketers to consumers as consumers are now producing and consuming information as they wish (Ritzer and Jurgenson, 2010).Today’s market is driven by consumer preferences and recommendations; it’s the ability of consumers to communicate and share information with many individuals online that represents the biggest opportunity or threat that exists for brands of goods and services (Yavisha and Krishna, 2013). Social media has created a space for consumers to influence one another through the purchasing process based on a trusted personal experience. This ensures a true reflection of value for money which is what all consumers strive to receive (Yavisha and Krishna, 2013).So, the next time you’re about to make a purchase… stop and check your buying habits to see if you’re following the exact same processes as mentioned above or if you’re still on a solo mission, trusting your own judgements before swiping or approving that purchase on your banking app. References:Deloitte. 2022. The changing drivers that influence consumer behaviour | Consumer Business | Deloitte Southern Africa. [online] Available at: https://www2.deloitte.com/za/en/footerlinks/pressreleasespage/the-changing-drivers-that-influence-consumer-behavior.html [Accessed 16 March 2022].https://digitalschoolofmarketing.co.za/blog/why-becoming-skilled-in-social-media-marketing-is-paramount-for-south-african-businesses/Ritzer G, Jurgenson N (2010). Production, consumption, prosumption: The nature of capitalism in the age of the digital “prosumer”. J.Cons. Cult. pp.163-196.Sheth NJ, Mittal B (2004). Consumer behaviour: a managerial perspective. 2nd ed. South Western Publishing Company: New Jersey.Statista. 2022. Smartphone users in South Africa 2014-2023 | Statista. [online] Available at: https://www.statista.com/statistics/488376/forecast-of-smartphone-users-in-south-africa/ [Accessed 18 March 2022].Yavisha, R. and Krishna, K., 2013. Social media browsing and consumer behaviour: Exploring the youth market. African Journal of Business Management, 7(18), pp.1885-1893.