Image supplied: Boschendal farm has family delights planned for the Easter weekendNight marketJump start the Easter long weekend with the Good Friday Night Market on 15 April. Tempting food stalls of gourmet burgers, tacos, waffles and many other delicious bites await. Complete with live local music, the Boschendal Night Market is an ideal evening out with your family and friends, welcoming the weekend under the Oaks.The Ceramics SA Western Cape Potters’ Market will also be there, taking place on 16 April from 9am until 4pm. Whether you’re looking to spoil yourself, browse the best of local talent, or maybe even get a gift ahead of Mother’s day, this market is definitely worth a visit.Easter Egg huntA fun family adventure awaits with Boschendal’s signature Easter hunt, a fun activity for the whole family to seek out nature’s treasures around the farm. Collect a map and set off on an adventure together. A special treat awaits at the end of the hunt.Image supplied: Boschendal farm has family delights planned for the Easter weekendDining outFrom 15 to 18 April, the Werf Farm Picnics are Easter inspired and priced at R660 for 2 adults to share and R150 per child.The Deli is serving a special Easter-inspired Breakfast menu from 12 to 19 of April: sunny breakfasts that will make you want to linger longer and explore the farm’s gardens, shops and art gallery. The Good Friday Dinner on Friday 15 April, prepared by Head Chef Allistaire Lawrence and paired with Boschendal premium wines, is a celebratory South African affair at just R520 for two persons sharing. Easter Sunday and Family Day Lunch on 17 and 18 April 2022 presents a beautiful three-course soil to fork menu celebrating the freshest ingredients from the farm.  Boschendal and Norval galleryThe restored Boschendal Manor House is now home to a special art collaboration with the Norval Foundation. Kate Gottgen’s Whispering of Ghosts is the latest exhibition and span the last seven years of her career from 2015 to the present. The collection demonstrates Gottgen’s ongoing interest in creating atmospheric often unsettling scenes from everyday subject matter. Image supplied: Boschendal presents Kate Gottgen’s Whispering of Ghosts art exhibitionThe Commercial exhibition boasts a partnership with the THK Gallery from Cape Town and features the unique collection Flights of Fancy. Both exhibitions are housed until the end of July.Ukwanda Puppet ShowBoschendal is also hosting a puppet performance. Let the child in you come out and play!The show takes place on 1 May and will be performed by puppets from Ukwanda Puppet Company from the Centre for Humanities Research (CHR) at the University of the Western Cape and musicians from Net vir Pret in Barrydale Focusing on the importance of conserving our freshwater resources and featuring the endangered redfin minnow and other surprises, this free show is sure to be a joy to young and old. Entry is free and the show starts at 11am.For more information and to book, go to the Boschendal website.