One such exhibition is Propak Africa which is taking place from 8-11 March 2022 at the Expo Centre Nasrec in Johannesburg, together with co-located shows The GAPP Print Expo, Pro-Plas Expo, FoodPro and Pro-Label Expo. Acknowledged as Africa’s most progressive packaging, food processing, plastics, printing and labelling trade exhibition, the show takes place every three years and attracts local and international exhibitors and visitors.  Over 200 packaging and related industries’ suppliers will be showcasing the very best that these industries offer. “It’s four days of unparalleled access to fresh new thinking and ideas that could take your business to the next level,” says Mark Anderson, portfolio director at Specialised Exhibitions, organisers of the show.“Industry front runners across these sectors will use this unique platform to introduce state-of-the-art technology, advanced equipment and new approaches to packaging,” says Anderson. “All the latest industry trends will be on view”.“Efficiency improvements, cost containment and targeting new market segments are also top of mind for visitors, to drive improved profitability and better returns. Spending time at Propak Africa will enable visitors to find products and solutions to address these priorities.”Industry leaders sharing insightsThe Seminar Theatre in Hall 5 will host industry leaders from packaging and related industries. Keynote speakers at the daily free-to-attend seminars will be sharing their insights about future developments of the industry and the challenges that these industries face.  In addition to the seminars, the Institute of Packaging SA’s ‘Think Tank’ conference will run four important workshops on 8 and 9 March. The four workshop topics are ‘Print Processes in Packaging’, 'Packaging & Waste Management – the Law & the Facts'; 'A Lean Six Sigma Approach to Quality Management'; and 'Plastic Packaging Unpacked'. Pre-booking and payment is required. Printing SA will also be hosting a conference on 10 March.“Without compromising on the visitors’ ability to effectively interact with the exhibitors, measures will be in place to ensure that the exhibition complies with the government’s regulations for safe social exchanges,” explains Anderson. “We are looking forward to the show!”For further information and visitor registration, visit www.propakafrica.co.za.