Source: SuppliedSA celebrity, Shashi Naidoo MC’ed the event in style, while those in attendance included celebrated chefs; James Gaag, The Lazy Makoti, Siba Mtongana and Wandile Mabaso. As well as entrepreneur Nicky Van Der Walt and his wife and model, Lee-Ann Liebenberg.The winners were chosen by a team of anonymous food critics as well as by a popular public digital vote. The panel of judges was convened by Chad Fourie, Chief Judge of the Luxe Restaurant Awards and Managing Director of The Hospitality Counsel."Over the past nine months, the Luxe Restaurant Award judges have been seeking out exemplary dining experiences in South Africa. Tonight, we have given these leading restaurants and chefs a platform to shine and celebrate their culinary genius. With all the unexpected changes we have endured over the past two years, people are now seeking out unique lifestyle experiences to build memories with their loved ones. And there is no greater experience than an award-winning restaurant," said FourieOverall, twenty-five winners were announced from a wide and inclusive set of categories that ranged from the Culinary Icon of the Year to the Street Food Experience of the Year, with the winner of the prestigious Chef of the Year being awarded with an exclusive BMW experience.Category winners1. Restaurant of the Year: La Colombe2. Chef of the Year: Wandile Mabaso3. New Restaurant of the Year: Pier4. Style Award: Zioux5. Culinary Icon Award: Siba Mtongana6. Culinary Media Personality of the Year: Cooking with Zanele7. Culinary Innovation Award: Candice Philip8. Culinary Rising Star Award: Besele Moloi9. Sustainability Award: The Test Kitchen Fledgelings10. Service Excellence Award: Basalt11. Pioneer Award: Luke Dale Roberts12. Cookbook of the Year: Hosting with The Lazy Makoti13. African Restaurant of the Year: Emazulwini14. Bistro of the Year: Embarc15. Burger Joint of the Year: BGR16. Café of the Year: Le Parc by Tashas17. Coffee Shop of the Year: Truth Café18. Fine Dining Restaurant of the Year: La Petite Colombe19. Hotel Restaurant of the Year: Aurum20. International Restaurant of the Year: Ethos21. Lifestyle Restaurant of the Year: Tang22. Pop Up Experience of the Year: Katlego Mlambo at The Marabi Club23. Steakhouse of the Year: The Blockman24. Street Food Experience of the Year: How Bao Now25.Wine Service Award: Michelle Moller - La Colombe