Source: © Dubai Lynx https://www.dubailynx.com/This year there are four South Africans on four separate juries: Tseliso Rangaka, chief creative officer, FCB/HC Johannesburg, is president of the print & publishing and radio & audio jury.Grant Sithole, chief product officer, Publicis Groupe sits on the social & influencer jury.Lisa Alexandra Bayliss, head of copy, FoxP2 is on the film jury. Nkanyezi Masango, group executive creative director, King James (Part of Accenture Interactive) is part of the direct outdoor jury.A unique perspectiveBayliss believes South Africans bring a unique perspective to the jury and awards. “Our backgrounds and what we’ve been through as a country informs the way we think, the way we engage with the world, and the way we approach different pieces of work,” she says. “The fact that we don’t have this homogeneous world view has made us more open to work that was created in contexts that are different from our own,” she adds. Source: © FoxP2 https://www.foxp2co.za Lisa Alexandra Bayliss, head of copy, FoxP2 is on the film juryMasango agrees that South African creatives bring a unique perspective. “We come from a very multicultural background, so we have the ability to identify excellence that transcends races, income brackets and cultures. “On top of that, our work contributes a lot to pushing the industry forward globally – that’s why we bring such a fresh perspective to the jury room,” he says.Nkanyezi Masango, group executive creative director, King James (Part of Accenture Interactive) is part of the direct outdoor jury Bayliss adds that having South Africans on international juries also helps raise the bar here at home. “After all, the more great international work and global trends South African creatives are exposed to, the better for our local industry.” Powerful storytelling and fundamentalsShe will be judging films and says she will be looking for films that are based on interesting and unique insights, powerful storytelling, and beautiful craft. “Is the concept clear and simple? Have they made the best use of the medium? And then, am I moved by what I’m looking at? Does it make me laugh? Smile? Cry? Does it make me think? Does it inspire me? Does it provoke or challenge me? Does it make me feel uncomfortable? Because if it’s not adding anything to my life – even if it’s just a moment of pure entertainment - then it’s wasting my (and millions of consumers’) time,” she expands. Masango is part of the direct outdoor jury, an area he says has changed over the last couple of decades. “But the fundamentals haven’t: the work needs to live at the intersection of relevance and originality,” he comments. Expert international juriesPhilip Thomas, chairman, Dubai Lynx, says that their expert jury members play an integral role in raising the creative bar for the MENA region. “We’re delighted to be working with them and look forward to immersing ourselves in the outstanding body of Lynx-winning work to set the creative benchmark for the region.” “It’s a real honour to be asked to judge an international show like the Dubai Lynx,” says Bayliss. “The work we award this year as a jury will impact on work made in years to come, so it’s not something to be taken lightly. And like with every show, a lot of work (and blood and sweat and late nights) went into the work, so it’s important to give every piece its due,” says Bayliss. Masango adds: “It’s always a privilege to be part of a prestigious jury. I look forward to learning from the debates as much as from the work itself.” The juries will help to benchmark work across 20 distinct Lynx Awards, including the refreshed Creative Effectiveness Lynx and PR Lynx, and the newly launched Social & Influencer Lynx, which celebrates creative social thinking and strategic influencer marketing solutions.The Awards celebrate creative excellence in the MENA region and are part of the Cannes Lion family and committed to a rigorous judging process.The 2022 award winners will be revealed and celebrated at the Dubai Lynx Awards Show, taking place at Dubai Opera House on 16 March 2022.