Image supplied: Jimmy Nevis will be the first concert to kick off the Summer Concerts at Kirstenbosch Gardens“We’ve been enjoying Jimmy’s company at the Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts since he began his now superstar-status singing career. His ability to musically connect comfortably with people of all ages and creeds is quite remarkable and a pleasure to be a part of. He’s now celebrating a decade of success in the industry. So, we’re super excited to welcome him back – as are our fellow music lovers, I’m sure!” said Sarah Struys, events and tourism manager at Kirstenbosch Gardens. Covid-19 has starved many music lovers of enjoying their favourite outdoor musical fixes - and Mayor Hill-Lewis acknowledges that the creative industry has been hit hard, specifically for live music performances and the venues that host them.“The Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts have become a true Mother City institution over the years, attracting thousands of local and international music lovers - and their picnic baskets - to one of Cape Town’s Big6 signature attractions. It’s always been the ideal setting for all of us to relax together, rebuild and unite with music, the international language we all love and understand. I’m privileged to play a part in the rebirth of these events and experiences. My family and I are really looking forward to welcoming and enjoying Jimmy’s super-popular, captivating sounds”, said Mayor Hill-Lewis.Werner Voigt, curator of Kirstenbosch, added that he has really missed the buzz of the concert vibes and crowd, albeit it is now in fairly limited numbers. “We can’t wait to welcome the people of Cape Town back to enjoy some of the best local music in our beautiful Garden.”Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts return with Jimmy Nevis and Jeremy Loops18 Feb 2022Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concerts fans are urged to book their tickets now to avoid disappointment. The second concert on 27 March with Jeremy Loops is already sold out.Sales are limited to 2000 and available here or at any Pick 'n Pay store. The gates will open at 4pm and the concerts will start at 5.30pm. All Covid safety protocols will be followed.