Image supplied: Participants in the Cape Town Cycle Tour Lifecycle ExpoCovid-19 restrictions forced the Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust to cancel all ancillary events surrounding the main event - the 109km Cape Town Cycle Tour - with the Lifecycle Expo an obvious casualty of social distancing regulations. Registration still took place in Green Point, a tightly-controlled and Covid-friendly affair - but there was little space for razzmatazz, bike parts, cool clothing and everything else the 31-year-old Expo has historically offered.The Nedbank International Polo returns to Joburg8 Feb 2022As we gradually leave the most restrictive phases of the pandemic, the Expo is back, with Nashua on board as a main sponsor.  Nashua CEO Barry Venter is looking forward to welcoming the 22,500 entrants to the 2022 Cycle Tour Registration. “Our sponsorship of the Cape Town Cycle Tour Lifecycle Expo is a natural progression for Nashua, after many years of tech enablement for the events office. We are proud to partner with Africa’s biggest celebration of cycling products, people and passions. Our latest Total Workspace Solutions offering will also be showcased at the Nashua stand at the Expo. We look forward to welcoming all the cyclists to the Expo and Registration and wish them all the best for a safe and successful Cycle Tour on Sunday the 13th.” 2022 sees The Cape Town Cycle Tour Lifecycle Expo back with a bang - more than 50 exhibitors will be showcasing their wares, with regular favourites like Oakley and Garmin out in force, and the regular range of must-have Official Souvenir clothing and gear - both on-the-bike and casual - on sale.Explore 11 local kid-friendly mountain bike parks these holidays with Euphoria TelecomIssued by Euphoria 15 Dec 2021 David Bellairs, director of the Cape Town Cycle Tour Trust, is looking forward to welcoming long-time event partners Nashua to the Expo and Registration. “We are extremely excited at the prospect of having Nashua as a partner to the Cape Town Cycle Tour Lifecycle Expo and Registration in 2022. There is a tremendous synergy between the efficient operation of our admin office and the business offerings of Nashua, and we look forward to a smooth and successful registration for all participants.” Admission is free to all entrants, but only to entrants - no supporting adults are allowed in the venue, nor are children under 12 - as part of the stringent Covid-19 protocols still in place. Entrance to the Expo and Registration is only open to vaccinated entrants or riders in possession of a negative rapid antigen test no older than 72 hours - there will be a rapid antigen testing station at the entrance to Registration at R175.