About usThe New Generation Awards – the No.1 digital media awards in South Africa – brings you the #NewGenTrends in Marketing Conference, taking place at The Venue, Melrose Arch on Tuesday 24 May 2022. This one-day, in-person conference will see nine industry leaders examine, analyse and break down “radar-worthy trends” to help you improve how you market, communicate and execute, to stand out from the rest.Our keynote speakers will share vital insights into what is crucial to stay competitive throughout 2022 and 2023. The trends that are making waves right now may transform how you approach marketing.The focus of this conference is on tools and strategies available right now – not on trends that will emerge in only 10 years’ time – that marketers can apply to their everyday marketing efforts to transform and boost their brand, career and industry. These are tools that have helped the conference’s speakers elevate their brands and clients, to grow business revenues that go beyond the brief.Speakers and topicsParusha Partab, Strategy Director – Wunderman Thompson South Africa: Topic – Driving Brand Growth with InspirationMike Sharman, CEO – Retroviral: Topic – B R A N D A L I S MJeanette Grove, Executive Creative Director (Content & Social) – Grey South Africa: Topic – Marshall McLuhan, Social Media as a Campfire, and Brands as StorytellersNikita Achadinha, Brand Manager – BMW Group South Africa: Topic – Digital Transformation, a BMW Point of ViewKelvin Jonck, CEO – YOUKNOW Digital: Topic – The 1st Party Data RevolutionMzamo Xala, Group CEO – Avatar: Topic – Disrupt Culture to PerformTara Turkington, CEO – Flow Communications: Topic – Finding Your Brand’s PurposeBrett StClair, Global CEO – Teraflow.ai: Topics – 1. The Future of Digital Sales is ML- Driven Personalisation, here’s where to start and 2. Decentralise to Centralise Hyper PersonalisationZaheida Sayed, Chief Operations Officer - Futuretech Media: Topic – Futuristic Marketing is Now …Why attend?Revenue Marketing: Learn how to deliver campaigns that drive revenue marketing as a focal point.Driving Brand Growth with Inspiration: Understand what it means to call a brand inspirational and how inspiration can drive growth for your brandWeb 3.0: Teaches you how to build the foundations to scale hyper-personalisation, and what technologies will need to be established – like ML – to manage the complexityBrand Building: The ups and downs and the need for business to dismantle, and vandalise, its perceived, public-facing personaThe Marshall McLuhan Theory: How a communication theory that’s over five decades old still applies to our media todayThe Future of PR and Influence: Learn when or if to launch a new business as opposed to creating a division; how to raise capital; and find out about impactful presentations, start-up school fees, and how to put emphasis on a manifesto rather than purposeInsights and Inspiration: To help you transform and boost your brand, career and industryTargeting and Attracting Anonymous Audiences: Why customer retention, customer experience and the use of 1st party consumer data are a priority. What are brands looking to accomplish and what technology is available to accelerate this?Inspiring Cultural Currency: Positioning your brands as agents of mass-scale digital adoption. Learn how to Disrupt the Culture to PerformDigital Transformation: We delve deeper into the shift of becoming a customer-centric, digital-first businessBuilding an Agency from Scratch while elevating your clients to emotional (and commercial) cult statusAnd much more …For a full breakdown of the day's agenda, please download the media pack using this link https://bit.ly/3vPu880.Who should attend? Ambitious marketers who are interested in the latest trends that will help elevate their marketing, broaden their skill set and keep them ahead of the competition. CostR3,500 per person excl. VAT. Book three or more seats and receive a 10% discount.To book seats, email az.oc.sdrawanegwen@nehpets (cell: 076 413 1339).Don’t miss out! Limited venue capacity, so book your seats early.Event sponsorsWunderman Thompson South AfricaInspiring Growth for Ambitious Brands, Wunderman Thompson South Africa is born out of the country’s foremost digital, social media, technology and advertising agencies.  Voted 2019 SA Agency Newsmaker of the year, the company offers Level 1 BBBEE credentials and full-service through-the-line capabilities. We put the customer at the heart of integration and everything we do in pursuit of growth for our clients. Strong strategic approaches backed by data insights, and creative bravery that leverages the solutions technology can support across Communications, Traditional and Digital Marketing, Sponsorships, Technology and eCommerce, and Consulting.Website / Twitter / LinkedInAudienseThe Audiense platform combines rich social data sources with the world’s leading cognitive and machine learning enabling you to understand the audiences that matter to your business. Here at Audiense we offer two powerful products:Audiense Insights – Understand the audiences that matter Explore the different segments within each audience • Understand the common characteristics that bring these individuals together. • Competitive intelligence by comparing segments with baselines or other audiences. • Identify relevant online/ offline marketing channels to increase engagement and customer acquisitionAudiense Connect – The #1 Twitter Marketing Platform Create your own custom chatbots • Build and explore communities using the world’s richest audience insights • Carry out community analysis, management, advanced monitoring & listening • Understand Instagram at an individual level and extract community insights to help develop your Instagram strategy.Website / Twitter / LinkedInBrandwatchWe bring structure and meaning to the voices of billions.Brandwatch helps you to understand the people of the world in ways you didn’t think possible. No matter how fast things change, our technology follows in real-time. We’re the difference between leading the way and getting left behind.Find meaning in the billions of conversations happening online.  Harness reliable insights with Brandwatch, the #1 digital consumer intelligence platform.Website / Twitter / LinkedInHootsuiteHootsuite is the global leader in social media management. With approximately 200,000 paid accounts and millions of users, Hootsuite powers social media for brands and organisations around the world, from the smallest businesses to the largest enterprises.Hootsuite’s unparalleled expertise in social selling, social customer care, and social media management empowers organisations to strategically grow their brands, businesses, and customer relationships with social.Hootsuite Academy, the industry-leading online learning platform, empowers education and growth through a wide range of certifications and has delivered over one million courses to over half a million people worldwide.To learn more, visit www.hootsuite.com.