Whether you exercise or move your body for health, sport performance or an opportunity to spend time with your friends and family, the new Activ range from Ackermans will have you doing it in style. Ackermans continues to expand its product offering for its customers by making affordable, quality, and all-inclusive activewear available in selected stores from 1 April 2022.  The new Activ range features set options in different colour ways with mix-and-match pieces. Crop tops retail from R159.95, shorts from R149.95, and leggings from R139.95 in XS through to XXL. Incorporating poly-spandex with high-elastane to aid in stretch recovery on certain products, and seam-free detailing with breathable fabric solutions, the range has been designed with comfort and performance in mind. Other design features include:  Side hip pockets and concealed pockets in the waistband for storage and convenience while training.  Removeable pads in the crop tops for support.  Pleats in the back of tank tops and vests to allow for movement and mobility.  Drawstring waists in track pants and shorts to ensure the fit can be adjusted.  Reflective emblems and logos for visibility while training outside.  Moisture management and wicking fabrication for a more comfortable training experience.  Cycling shorts and leggings include body contouring detail.  Jackets with a water-repellent finish. The range has also incorporated fashion forward solutions to take the wearer from lunges in gym straight to lunches with girlfriends or the school run. In addition to apparel, the Ackermans Activ range includes footwear and accessories like Pilates balls, yoga mats, skipping ropes, and waterbottles along with sweat towels. All your active lifestyle needs under one roof. And because Ackermans understands the busy lifestyles of its customers, its Click and Collect offering allows for shopping online at a convenient time with collection from a preferred store – this also means that should your closest Ackermans not be stocking the Activ range, you can simply buy it online. Head to the website, and still have access to Ackermans’ full range of products and shop the Activ range on the go. For more information on Ackermans Activ range and where it’s available, visit the site, or head to Instagram or Facebook.