MainstaySince its first launch 16 years ago, the Tucson has become Hyundai’s best-selling SUV with sevrn million sales globally. In South Africa, the frist-generation Tucson was one of the models that placed the Hyundai brand squarely on the map. And that popularity is set to continue. “We have had significant success with the Tucson in South Africa – it soon became the mainstay of our range after its local introduction in 2004. The new Tucson is another step up both in build and design quality, with a superior ride,” says Stanley Anderson, sales and operations manager at Hyundai Automotive South Africa.Striking designOverall, its muscular stance combines sharp angles and dynamic proportions, ensuring a progressive look without compromising on Tucson’s rugged SUV heritage.It is the first Hyundai SUV to be developed according to the company’s 'Sensuous Sportiness' design identity. In short and in my humble opinion, the design of the new Tucson will be well received in the SA market.The most prominent display of these is on the vehicle’s front grille, where Parametric Hidden Lights provide a strong first impression. When the lights are off, the front of the vehicle appears covered in dark, geometric patterns, with no distinction between the signature LED Daytime Running Lights (DRLs), which are seamlessly integrated into the grille.Thanks to new half-mirror lighting technology, when the DRLs are switched on, the dark chrome appearance of the grille transforms into jewel-like shapes, bringing an eye-catching element to an otherwise sleek appearance.ParametricOn the rear, wide tail lamps with parametric hidden light details continue the design theme. The new Tucson’s rear bumper also integrates parametric pattern details with a three-dimensional effect, coupled with a sporty trim. It is also the first Hyundai model to apply a hidden rear wiper, which sit under the spoiler. Customers can choose from seven exterior colours, Shimmering Silver, Silky Bronze, Phantom Black, White Cream, Crimson Red and Deep Sea.Plush interiorSophisticated and spacious. It’s like walking into a neatly organised room where everyday concerns disappear. Inside, space, technology and information meets harmoniously. Featuring sensuous design elements inspired by waterfalls, twin silver trim lines emanate from the centre console to the rear doors accenting premium materials in neutral tones. The seamless integration of segment-leading technology provides all-new Tucson customers with an advanced and fully customisable digital experience. The new Audiovisual Navigation (AVN) 10.25-inch touch-screen fills the centre of the vehicle. Hyundai’s designers dispensed with physical knobs and buttons, so all AVN, heat, ventilation and air conditioning functions are controlled via touch, making it the first Hyundai model to feature a full touchscreen console.Comfort and convenienceApple Car Play and Android Auto cell phone connectivity, a standard feature across the range, allows customers to mirror the functionality of their Apple and Android smartphones in a simplified and convenient manner. Other infotainment and connectivity features on the all-new Tucson include a premium sound system for an enhanced listening experience, a wireless charging pad in the centre console, and front and rear USB ports for even more convenience, particularly on long journeys. The Elite variant, which I drove, was equipped with a panoramic glass sun roof, that is sure to please the occupants. It allows plenty of sunlight in need.PowertrainsTwo four-cylinder engines – a naturally aspirated 2l  petrol and a 2l turbodiesel are used. The Smartstream petrol engine, linked to 6-speed automatic transmission, does duty in the Premium, Executive and one of the Elite variants, while the Smartstream D 2.0 turbocharged diesel engine, coupled with an eight-speed transmission, is used in the other Elite derivative. The 2l petrol engine delivers 115 kW peak power. The turbodiesel boasts with 137kW peak power. Fuel consumption in a combined test cycle was measured at 8,9ls per 100km for the 2l petrol variants, while the turbodiesel Elite uses 7,9ls per 100km. The eight-speed transmission coupled with the turbodiesel engine in the Elite variant provides quick and crisp shifts for an engaging and efficient driving experience. PricingTucson 2.0 NU Premium AT - R519,900Tucson 2.0 NU Executive AT -R569,900Tucson 2.0 NU Elite AT - R634,900Tucson R2.0 Elite Turbodiesel AT - R699,900 All new Hyundai Tucsons are sold with a seven-year/200,000km manufacturer’s warranty, a six-year/90,000km service plan and roadside assistance for seven years or 150,000km.