Following on from the success of our physical events over the past five years which include sell-out live Tropics Business Mixers of over 15,000 attendees and a roster of globally renowned speakers, sponsors and partners including MasterCard, Orange, National Basketball Association (NBA) amongst others, we will continue our tradition of bringing extraordinary speakers, partners and opportunities to you with the Tropics Tech & Influence Summit this year. In today’s new market, the landscape for events has changed and there is an understandable and necessary increase in demand for quality virtual conferences. Tropics Business Summit’s track record gives us a unique ability to lead and deliver the same quality of content and engagement via a virtual platform since 2020. The forthcoming Tropics Tech & Influence Summit promises to become a world-class virtual event offering unique and multilingual tech-focused content, inspire insight and synergies with respected voices from the industry. This two-day, jointly curated event by the Tropics Venture Group alongside OS Holdings, Tropics Magazine, Amathuba AI and the https://cclcv.lu/en/ Chamber of Commerce Luxembourg - Cape Verde]] is also endorsed by Tropics Invest & Co., Greentec Capital Partners, Xegara, Afrika Synergies, Yunus Invest, Axum, Armooh Williams, Excellys Academy and Unstoppable Winner will have content from international speakers across two stages, one-to-one networking opportunities in the virtual Tropics Dealroom with influential thought-leaders and fully interactive options for engagement with both speakers and other attendees throughout Day 2. Using cutting-edge technology, our attendees will have an unforgettable virtual experience where they will engage with an exciting lineup of experts from four continents (Africa, Europe, America and Asia) to discuss, debate, exchange knowledge and network effectively, all without the need to engage each other in-person. The Tropics Tech & Influence Summit is an exciting new step on our journey and we look forward to announcing key speakers in the coming days. We have worked tirelessly with our leading international partners and companies to ensure the delivery of this new event across all social media platforms including YouTube, LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. With the advent of the AfCFTA - African Continental Free Trade Area - Africa remains the gateway and a global node to the world’s fastest-growing digital economies. Tropics Tech & Influence therefore serves as a buildup event to the sixth annual Tropics Business Summit happening later this year in Praia, Cabo Verde, from 10 to 15 October 2022 under the High Patronage of Mr Francisco Carvalho (mayor of the city of Praia), with the goal to drive conversations only possible on the African continent across business, tech and government leaders that will shape our shared digital future and power all our 54 African economies. The Tropics Tech & Influence Summit 2022 attendees can register their interest by email (cc [[tropicsbusinessevents@gmail.com) or register via Eventbrite. From there, attendees can receive all updates between the time of registration until the day of the event. For any additional information, please feel free to email moc.timmussciport@olleh or follow our official hashtags on social media: #TropicsBusinessSummit and #TropicsTECHxINFLUENCE to receive our updates in real time.