Image supplied: Wiehan Mostert and Will Rawson, cofounders of Furley's Bar & Grill Starting a restaurant in the pandemic is a risky move, but the cofounders of Furley’s Bar & Grill saw a valuable opportunity to bring a family-orientated restaurant to the Newlands area, which had also felt the impact of the pandemic. Their offering brings fresh life and opportunity to what residents may fondly remember as the Golden Spur Steak Ranch for the past 18 years. Furley’s is a new family-friendly restaurant and bar located in the heart of Newlands on the corner of Main Road and Dean Street. Having opened its doors at the end of 2021, the restaurant aims to bring vibrance and excitement back to the southern suburbs of Cape Town after many restaurants and bars suffered from the economic fallout of the last two years.  Tang opens doors in Cape Town3 days agoThe founders also envision bringing about meaningful change through skills development and job creation. “We were inspired to bring life back into the community by creating an environment where everyone is welcome, and where our patrons can enjoy real value for money. These were the most fundamental foundations for us because we want Furley’s to feel like a home away from home for everyone who walks through our doors,” says Rawson. The massive space has been refurbished into a modern and welcoming restaurant and bar environment, boasting a children's play area, a stage for live entertainment, a fully stocked bar and delicious food and great service. “We also want to bring value to the community through bringing job opportunities and on-the-job training to our staff members as we grow,” Rawson adds. Image supplied: Furley's Bar & Grill in Newlands Rawson believes that bringing real value to customers is imperative. "We really wanted to develop offerings that make people feel that they are getting great deals for what they are paying for, and that is accessible to all budgets without compromising on food quality.” To engage local communities, promotions of value-packed specials are being communicated on the restaurant’s social media pages, from after-school lunch specials for kids to two-for-one burger specials for dinner on Wednesdays.  “We are constantly working on ways to bring great deals to our customers through offering great combos and special events. When there’s a sporting event taking place, a milestone birthday party, or an event to celebrate, we want to be there for our customers by giving them a great space to socialise and celebrate,” says Rawson.  Furley’s Bar & Grill is open from Mondays to Saturdays between 11am and 11pm and is closed on Sundays. The menu offers a wide variety of generous meals from burgers, steaks and pizzas, to lunchtime specials with a range of dishes that change weekly.