According to Elmarie Prinsloo, chief executive officer (CEO) of Bloem Show, the trade fair is one of only two shows in the country that successfully combines commercial activities and agricultural art, boasting just over 100,000 visitors annually, contributing more than R100 million to the local economy while creating 1,150 temporary jobs during the period of the show. Bloem Show famously hosts the largest open-air saddle horse show in the world, and more than 22 agricultural championships. Since its founding in 1883, the show has had a successful track record for more than 139 years, showcasing more than 300 exhibitors, diverse entertainment, the largest section of creative artwork in the country, a dairy product show, as well as stud breeders championships. Understandably, due to Covid-19 restrictions, the show could not be hosted the past two years, and the organisers have recently indicated that they are ready to safely host a large-scale event within adjusted regulations. “Visitors, exhibitors, participants and agricultural exhibitors are looking forward to the show with incredible excitement and thus far, feedback has been positive,” says Prinsloo. She further confirmed the entertainment programme is jam-packed with OFM proud to host various music evenings featuring: Sing Country featuring Juanita du Plessis, Franja du Plessis and Ruan Josh, Francois van Coke, Snotkop and Spoegwolf. In addition, OFM is a proud sponsor of the popular FMX Flight Night motorbike stunt shows as well. Through various competitions, OFM listeners can also stand a chance to win tickets and cash to make Bloem Show 2022 a memorable event. “It is exciting times ahead with the ‘re-opening’ of the Bloem Show. We have missed this ‘grand old lady’. OFM is continuing to partner in the presentation and encourage the entire Central South Africa to visit and bring the family,” says Nick Efstathiou, CEO of the Central Media Group which has interests in OFM. Other attractions include: Lollos performances for children, BMX and skateboarding demonstrations, bodybuilding competition, synthetic ice skating rink, oval track racing and the first ever polo event at the show. The agricultural programme boasts 23 championships of horses, small stock, and cattle, of which 13 are national championships. The national championship of the Jack Russell dog breed will also be presented. “Thank you for everyone’s support over these past two difficult years. We have done everything we could do to preserve Bloem Show for the community and we rely on everyone’s support this year. Don’t miss out, Bloem Show 2022 will offer the best entertainment, exhibitors, agricultural championships and an excellent marketing opportunity. Despite the rising costs and expenses, the Bloem Show brings its exhibitors and visitors prices at 2020 rates,” concludes Prinsloo. For more information, contact az.oc.mfo@gnitekram.