Source: SuppliedThe deal is the result of a partnership between Legends and local hair and beauty distributor Great Africa Hair Company (GAHC), which has stated its aim to "grow and amplify an already brilliant response to market demand".“This partnership comes at a time when small and medium-sized enterprises are in most need of support. GAHC is effecting positive change in supporting smaller brands by assisting each to gain access and shelf space in retailers they otherwise would struggle to achieve, independently,” shares GAHC CEO and founder, Salil Dhingra.So, how do you take an already thriving business and turn it into a global contender while satisfying and servicing an already loyal and growing local market?  According to Grant Heynes, GAHC sales head, “Simply put, South Africans recognise Legends Barbershop as a proudly South African brand. Their excellent marketing efforts to date will ensure that consumers will recognise the brand name and have access to the products in a place where they already shop for other personal care products.”Salil Dhingra (GAHC), Sheldon Tatchell (Legends Barbershop and Grant Heynes (GAHC). Source: SuppliedFrom Eldorado Park to AfricaHaving started out cutting hair on the streets of Eldorado Park, Sheldon Tatchell (founder and owner) has over the past 10 years expanded Legends to over 60 locations across South Africa and Southern Africa, appealing to consumers from all backgrounds. "The story of Sheldon is symbolic of entrepreneurship at its best. This is the stuff that Legends is made of, and he is so humble in his success," GAHC states. For these reasons, Legends was a standout choice among many other small business models and brands that trade in a similar category.Founder of Dis-Chem, Ivan Saltzman getting his hair cut by Sheldon Tatchell. Source: Supplied"We know that retail readiness is critical for success, we see small businesses daily but only 10% of these are in fact retail-ready," says Heynes.Legends Barbershop had all aspects of quality that was ready for the retail space and moving forward, GAHC will guide the brand team in terms of pricing, logistics, marketing, promotions and product development in order to be successful and to grow in the formal retail and wholesale channel.Tatchell comments, “Great Africa Hair Company is truly a great business that bridges the gap between brand owners and retailers. We are delighted to have partnered with them.”Major distributor invests in local haircare brand Nilotiqa22 Feb 2022Extending reach of branded productsA big part of the Legends brand is ensuring customers have a Legendary experience outside of just a cut. With a growing product range, Legends already has an assortment of top-rated line items that include their beard oils, wave brush, double-edged blades, and many other products for their customers' daily regimes.“Since hitting Dis-Chem’s shelves a week ago, the brand has already started to sell in numbers that has surprised us, and so we are thrilled that this opportunity has been created," adds Heynes from GAHC. “Our aim is place the product assortment within reach of most South African consumers who aspire to use and support this popular local brand. Dis-Chem is a trusted retail partner in the communities that Legends serves nationally."