Source: www.pexels.comProduction Company of the Year by country is chosen by executive juries from the entries in the portfolio cut and requires a single film no longer than five minutes in length that includes up to three pieces of work from the past 12 months. This year executive juries will be held in the following countries and production company of the year by country will be awarded: USA, Brazil, Mexico, UK, Denmark, Austria, Belgium, Philippines, and Japan. As a sponsor, the winning statues for the production company of the year by country will be engraved and presented by PSN. Additionally, as part of the partnership, they will be joining a Gerety talk episode for a global view on the production service industry. The panel will include Ana Luz Córdoba, executive producer at Jacaranda Films; Joan Chen, executive producer/producer at Cat & Mouse Production and Pippa Bhatt, founding partner at Madam Films. The three are producers at top-tier production service companies in Chile, China, and the UK respectively. Their companies are the exclusively vetted PSN partners in each territory. Commenting on the partnership, founder Michael Moffett said "PSN and its Partners are honoured to work with our industry's leading production companies. We know first-hand the talent and hard work they pour into every project. We are excited to sponsor the Gerety award that recognizes their achievements." PSN is a boots-on-the-ground network of production service companies in 50 territories experienced at providing comprehensive film support in more than 100 countries. PSN vets and chooses one top-tier service company in each major film hub to support the work of countless creatives, production companies, and agencies. Production Service Network streamlines and expedites the work of producers creating content worldwide. “We are delighted to have PSN as a sponsor,” says Gerety Co-Founder Lucia Ongay. “As a global award show to have the support of an industry leader that is such an integral part of the advertising ecosystem, we could not be happier” Named for Frances Gerety, the copywriter who in 1948 coined the slogan "A diamond is forever”. The Gerety Awards marks the first time that a jury has been brought together to select the best in advertising — all advertising, not just advertising made for women — through the female lens, creating a benchmark that is relevant to the market reality, all while redefining the standard to which advertising has traditionally been held.