Among the selected participants is three South African startups - Multiplied, who offer data-driven design at scale through infinite personalised content for marketing, Nulitics, a Mixed Reality (XR) software development and system integrator with a focus on XR wearable technology, and The Marking App who provide a data-free application that automatically marks handwritten school assessments while also automating school administration. The selected startups are developing solutions in areas such as healthcare, education, fleet management, logistics automation and recruiting. This seventh class of the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa was selected from thousands of applications, with the final selection based on product stage, programme alignment and market fit. Over the next three months, they will work with Google mentors and facilitators learning best practices on a range of topics including Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, organisational culture, growth strategies and more. Google for Startups Accelerator Africa programmes are organised around a virtual bootcamp concept that includes seminars, one-on-one coaching sessions, and peer-to-peer learning opportunities. Bootcamps will take place in March, April and May. The programme has supported 82 startups from 17 African countries over the past four years. Collectively, they have raised $112m and created 2,800 direct jobs. This time, Google has invested $5m through a combination of equity-free funding and product credits for Google services.  The selected startups for the Google for Startups Accelerator Africa Class 7 are:Clafiya (Nigeria): Connects patients to health practitioners to provide fast and affordable on-demand primary care services in Africa.Fleetsimplify (Kenya): Fleet management platform for shared mobility.HydroIQ (Kenya): Virtual water network that gives consumers and utilities a single, transparent platform to manage their water consumption and management.iVerify.ng (Nigeria): A digital identity onboarding platform.LaRuche Health (Ivory Coast): Offers inclusive apps that simplify care delivery and improve patient access to preventive healthcare services.LyRise (Egypt): A platform that provides companies with an easier, faster way to hire and work with vetted AI and data talents from Africa.MDaaS Global (Nigeria): Builds and operates modern, technology-enabled diagnostic services in clinically-underserved communities in Nigeria.Multiplied (South Africa): Offers data-driven design at scale through infinite personalised content for marketing.Nulitics (South Africa): A specialist Mixed Reality (XR) software development and system integrator with a focus on XR wearable technology.Ridelink (Uganda): Makes cargo mobility affordable and accessible for small businesses at the tap of a button.SmartClass (Tanzania): A skill-learning network that enables youth to learn from their peers.Sukhiba (Kenya): A decentralised community-based commerce platform.Terawork (Nigeria): A pan-African online freelance marketplace plugging African talent into the global workforce.The Marking App (South Africa): Provides a data-free application that automatically marks handwritten school assessments while also automating school administration.truQ (Nigeria): Tech-enabled logistics platform automating and optimising short-haul (or intracity) logistics for automated retail distribution companies in Africa. Folarin Aiyegbusi, head of startup ecosystem for Africa, commented “We're thrilled to be starting off our seventh cohort with such a diverse and inspiring group of companies who are harnessing technology to tackle the problems that many people on the continent face every day.  “Startups in Africa are solving some of the region's most pressing issues -from employment to logistics, banking, healthcare and education. This is a journey that we're happy to be on.”