Image supplied: MTN Bushfire will return this year Winner of the Best Responsible Event Award at the African Responsible Tourism Awards in 2017, MTN Bushfire has also been hailed by CNN as one of the ‘7 African Music Festivals You Really Have To See’ and listed by BBC as a ‘Top African Festival’. This uniquely African - yet globally infused - festival entertains thousands of people in an atmosphere of tolerance and passionate commitment to music, the arts and the environment. As one of the Covid-19 safety protocols, festivalgoers will be required to provide valid proof of full vaccination against Covid-19 to enter the festival grounds. This is a requirement for all ages eligible for vaccination; a valid ticket alone will not be enough to gain entry. David Gray to perform South African arena tour24 Mar 2022 MTN Bushfire has taken this decision in conjunction with its partners as it is the best way to ensure the health and safety of festivalgoers, artists, festival staff and local communities. The festival’s commitment to the creative sector, as well as to the broader Eswatini community, is an integral element of the Bring Your Fire mandate to create positive social change. MTN Bushfire 2022 will be an exciting chance to reconnect with the music and arts of Africa, as well as with fellow Fire Starters, in a spirit of joy and celebration from 27-29 May.   Image supplied: The MTN Bushfire main stageHolders of 2020 tickets are assured that their tickets remain valid for the 2022 festival and will be honoured. Please take note however that all 2020 ticket holders will need to register their ticket options for this year. The registration link can be found on the tickets page of the MTN Bushfire website. Please note that 2020 tickets will not remain valid past the 2022 festival. Tickets are now available for purchase through the MTN Bushfire website. Please note, however, that only a limited number of attendees will be allowed this year as one of the numerous Covid safety protocols put in place by MTN Bushfire.