Image supplied: An Afternoon in Puglia will be a sequel to Under The Tuscan Sun This exclusive lifestyle event will be hosted at an exclusive venue, 30km outside Johannesburg. The ambience will be reminiscent of the relaxed and unhurried lifestyle of the small villages in the south of Italy. Puglia, which is also known as Apulia, is a region in the southern part of Italy that forms Italy’s ‘boot’. The region is known as the birthplace of many unique Italian foods. It has also endeared itself to visitors with its whitewashed hill towns, centuries-old farmland and pristine Mediterranean coastline. The Stellenbosch Wine Harvest Parade is back!2 days ago The event will be curated by VS Luxury Group. The experience will be complemented by an Italian inspired multi-course menu, expertly cooked food, using ingredients that tell a story.  Bonnke Shipalana, the group CEO of Tag, explains that the upcoming event will live up to the motto of ‘The Slow Life’, which is underpinned by an unhurried and relaxed lifestyle, momentarily detaching from the hustle and bustle of modern living, soaking in and appreciating life’s little pleasures and making time to appreciate what nature and life have to offer. “With these lifestyle events, our primary objective is to create innovative and exciting experiences that bring cosmopolitan culinary pleasures and introduce enchanting lifestyle experiences that delight the senses. An Afternoon in Puglia is all about bringing the Italian lifestyle that is centred around family, friends, food to our backyard without having to travel overseas. We promise that the Italian escape will be memorable and one to savour,” says Shipalana. SA Fashion Week collections kick off in April1 day ago Similar to the theme of Under the Tuscan Sun, An Afternoon in Puglia will be about an extraordinarily long, relaxed lunch in an ambient atmosphere in a vineyard where a decadent multi-course lunch prepared by a professional chef will be served to guests seated across a long table. An Afternoon in Puglia will be hosted on 23 April between 2pm and 8pm and the ticket price is R1,950 per person. To book your seat at the table, you can go here.