Image supplied: Honest Chocolate gives artists a space to express themselves through their packaging This collaboration aims to create a holistic experience for their customers that touches all senses and set Honest Chocolate apart in a category dominated by large FMCG brands. The latest artist to be showcased is Amy-Lee Tak. Her artwork is featured on the newly launched Maca Mylk Bar which forms part of the Mylk Range - a chocolate range that uses alternative mylks.  Tak lives and works in Cape Town and is a self-taught artist with five years of experience as a professional painter. Her work depicts unapologetic rest, comfort and freedom in one’s own skin, mirroring her own aspirations for softness and self-love. “I am very excited to be part of this, to both expose my ideas and to sell my art using both the traditional way of selling art as well as a more modern medium,” says Tak.  How interested are video game developers in NFTs?16 Feb 2022“Honest Chocolate has always wanted to do more for emerging South African artists. Now we can provide a unique platform to help showcase their work,” says Anthony Gird, cofounder of Honest Chocolate.  “We often get asked for posters of our wrapper artwork but have never offered that before. Now we have created two avenues for fans to truly become a part of the experience,” says Gird. The campaign offers a limited number of actual signed prints of the artwork by the artist which will be available for sale, as well as an NFT range. NFT’s allow artists and consumers/investors to purchase a ‘signed’ digital version of the art piece. In addition, it has the added value that you can add a smart contract to it.  This will be the first of a range of NFTs that will be available, but as the brand releases new artist ranges there will be more available. Secondary sales of the NFT’s (i.e., between the buyer and a secondary buyer) will have a 10% royalty being paid back to the artist, so they get a direct share in the increasing value of their art. A portion of all proceeds is also going to the Cape Rape Crisis Project, which is supported by the artist.  NFT marketing with Dr Raeesah ChohanBy Emily Stander 10 Feb 2022 “We are excited to try something new that provides more opportunities for more people to benefit from ethical products. There is immediate value for our fans in the discounts they receive and hopefully long-term gain for them and the artist as the value of the art-works increases over time. No brands have tried this before in SA, so we have yet to see how the public reacts - but we are excited to try something new,” concludes Gird.