Image supplied: The Durban promenadeThe acquisition serves as the agency’s entrance to the African continent as it will now have a location in Durban. This presents a strategic opportunity as many of the firms’ clients, particularly those in the Middle East, are expanding their businesses into Africa. Dan Chazen, founder and CEO of the Omniado Agency, will join Steinreich Communications as creative services director along with all the current members of his staff. He and his team will work with all the agency’s clients across industries and sectors to provide design strategy and implementation for social media as well as video production. MTN Group brand evolution underlines its role as a driver of Africa's progress2 days agoPrior to founding the Omniado Agency, Chazen served as managing director of Blackstone Media, a billboard advertising agency in South Africa. He worked on a broad group of clients in consumer products, retail and business-to-business sectors, including Adidas, Coca Cola, BMW and Mercedes. “Dan and the Omniado brand brings an unparalleled level of experience in the digital and design space that will be invaluable to our clients. We have worked together on a variety of joint accounts and share a similar vision which we are looking forward to executing on, together as one team,” said president and CEO, Stan Steinreich. “Additionally, our new location in South Africa provides a wonderful opportunity for our clients who have already expressed interest in developing their businesses in that market. How Adobe Substance is changing creative designIssued by Dax Data 18 hours ago“I am thrilled about the tremendous opportunity we have to add a new dimension to the existing capabilities of the agency to offer a complete package of communications, marketing and creative services to our clients,” said Chazen. “My team and I are very excited to be joining Steinreich Communications, one of the best in the industry. My team and I have already hit the ground running and are excited about the future.” Through this acquisition, Steinreich Communications is bolstering its social media design, website development, video production, email marketing, special event support and corporate identity branding capabilities for its clients.