Image supplied: Sylvaine Strike and Andrew Buckland in FireflyFirefly, under the name of Ferine and Ferase was one of the flagship productions at the Toyota US Woordfees, showcased on television, DStv Channel 150, in October last year. The world of Firefly - an unforgettable journey into the underbelly of wonder, in all it’s awful splendour - is a passionate tale of moon-crossed love, betrayal, revenge and desire. The exceptional clowning duo, who deliver performances that will move, thrill and delight audiences, are accompanied live by Tony Bentel on piano and who is responsible for the musical arrangements and some original music.Film reviewer and arts writer, Diane De Beer, described it as one of “magic and mastery”. She said, “The work that has gone into every second and scene of Ferine and Ferase (Firefly), contributes to a theatrical experience that reels you in and bowls you over, encourages you to participate heart and soul, introduces you to a fantastic universe that’s both charged and charming, while Buckland and Strike in costume and character simply steal your heart and hold it tight from start to finish."Image supplied: Sylvaine Strike and Andrew Buckland in FireflySeasoned critic, Marguerite Robinson, called it “the kind of theatre experience you only have once in a blue moon, but stays with you forever." The production also brings together Morkel, Strike and Buckland, who previously collaborated on Tobacco, which played to huge success in South Africa and at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. Morkel was recently directed by Strike in the solo performance of Cottonwool Kid.Strike is currently receiving great praise for her direction of the modern classic, Kiss of the Spider Woman, currently on stage at The Baxter. Other successes in recent years at The Baxter include Endgame, Curse of the Starving Class, Tartuffe, Tobacco and The Miser. In 2019 she was awarded the prestigious Chevalier de l’ordre des Arts et des Lettres (Knight of the Order of Arts and Letters) by the French Government and is a former Standard Bank Young Artist for Drama winner and Featured Artist of the National Arts Festival.Image supplied: Sylvaine Strike and Andrew Buckland in FireflyBuckland, currently on stage at The Baxter in the critically acclaimed Life and Times of Michael K, has wowed audiences for his performances in Endgame and The Inconvenience of Wings, both of which earned him Fleur du Cap awards. Other highlights include being awarded three Fringe First Awards at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, in Scotland.Presented by the Baxter Theatre and Toyota SU Woordfees, in association with The Fortune Cookie Company, Firefly runs at the Baxter Flipside from 24 March to 9 April 2022 at 7.30pm nightly, with Saturday matinees at 2.30pm. Ticket prices range from R150 (during the week) to R170 (on weekends) and can be bought online through Webtickets or at Pick n Pay stores.Giselle performer replaced amidst Russia-Ukraine conflict4 Mar 2022For discounted block or schools booking, charities and fundraisers, contact Carmen Kearns on carmen.kearns@uct.ac.za or 021 680 3993.