Nestled in the heart of the city’s exclusive Bantry Bay lies Ellerman House, one of South Africa’s oldest and most exclusive hotels, set apart by its spectacular positioning between the iconic Lion’s Head and Atlantic Ocean. For travellers, the old Edwardian mansion that dates back to 1906 represents much of the best of what Cape Town has to offer, and while the Ellerman House of today takes care to not lose sight of its origins, reinvention and innovation remains a key criteria for an establishment that opened its doors to the public in 1992. Reinvention and innovation remains a key criteria for Ellerman House Nowhere is this more evident than with the Ellerman House art collection, assembled over 30 years and featuring modern South African masterpieces alongside works from local, up-and-coming artists. “The Ellerman House Art Collection is a South African collection like no other and expresses the true character of our land, our people and our unique South African heritage,” says Ellerman House marketing manager Nicolene Enslin. “As the majority of our guests live abroad, a guest may find a fascinating art piece during their stay, but will possibly not know the artist or the history around this specific art piece. “ArtScan assists our guests in learning about the artist’s journey, works and the significance of the specific art piece.” Using the ArtScan app, guests can scan the art on display with a mobile phone - unlocking a written or audio biography of the specific art piece and artist - providing guests with their own private art tour - simply by scanning. At any time in the future, guests can relive the experience by visiting their scanning history in the app, which stores a digital representation of the art piece and links to learn more. Guests can relive the experience by visiting their scanning history in the app “The wonderful benefit of ArtScan is that you don’t even have to be an art connoisseur,” Enslin continues. “But when you fall in love with a piece, you can instantly have the information on hand and enrich your knowledge and a deeper understanding for both the artist and the art. ArtScan truly does bring art to life for all – new and older art lovers.” Publisher’s Toolbox and the ArtScan team will be partnering with more galleries in 2022 to enable art collections for scanning - part of PT’s mission to digitally accelerate the art industry. Are you an art gallery or educational institution that wants to bring your art collection to life and give your guests a digital surprise? Learn more about ArtScan.