The Hospice Palliative Care Association of South Africa (HPCASA) are assisting with the advertising of this event to South Africa.A hybrid conferenceThe conference will be hybrid to accommodate both physical and virtual participants. As the world is currently navigating the Covid-19 pandemic, the APCA and partners decided to focus on the theme: Palliative Care in a Pandemic.Palliative care experts, researchers, health workers, carers, donors, and people living with palliative care needs will all find content of interest at this conference. It is also expected to attract several country ministers of health and dignitaries as well as government technical officials. Previous conferences have been very successful and this will be the first conference to held in pandemic context.Invitation to submit abstractsThe APCA invites participants to submit abstracts for the conference.Abstracts may include research, best practice models developed over the pandemic and recommendations to help us respond better in similar situations in the future. There are six broad conference tracks. To submit, participants must please register here. Once registered, you can submit your abstracts here. The deadline for submitting the abstracts is 1 April 2022. Invitation to submit workshop proposalsThe organising committee for the 7th International African Palliative Care Conference invites interested individuals or organisations to submit a workshop proposal for the conference. All workshops will be virtual, and we recommend that all speakers join the session live if possible. If necessary, speakers may record their presentations in advance for the moderator or workshop organiser to play during the live session. Please find more information and guidelines here.APCA is co-hosting the conference in partnership with the Worldwide Hospice and Palliative Care Alliance (WHPCA). The conference is co-sponsored by the International Children’s Palliative Care Network (ICPCN), Palliative Care in Humanitarian Aid Situations and Emergencies (PallCHASE), The International Association for Hospice and Palliative Care (IAHPC), and Global Partners in Care.