Image supplied: Celebrate the Harvest Celebration at Spier HotelThe family-friendly event on 22-24 April 2022 offers Spier Hotel guests the opportunity to meet the farm’s winemakers to learn more about the winemaking process.  Cellar master Johan Jordaan said, “We’re a seasoned winemaking team having shared five summers together. This was my first harvest as cellar master and we’re exploring new horizons and seizing fresh opportunities. I’m eager to have some fun and share our wine knowledge with our guests at the Harvest Celebration.”The Spier Harvest Celebration promises an authentic experience in the heart of the Cape Winelands and has something for everyone, from wine newbies to vintage connoisseurs. Science and creativity collaborate to pair music and wine7 hours agoHere’s a taste of what visitors can expect:On Friday, 22 April 2022, Cellar Master Johan Jordaan will officially open the celebration, welcoming guests with Spier’s Cap Classique. At dinner, guests hear the winemakers’ tales of exciting successes and challenges in the cellar this vintage.Saturday, 23 April 2022 begins with a buffet breakfast hosted by Spier’s Cap Classique winemaker, Heidi Dietstein, and served with bubbly and fresh mosbolletjies and mosbeskuit. Lovers of organic wines will be able to see where the magic happens with a complete organic vineyards immersion, led by Spier’s organic winemaker, Tania Kleintjes. Guests will taste acclaimed organic wines while learning about their origins. For the more creative spirits, Spier’s winemakers are leading an interactive wine-blending experience.In the evening, winemakers come together to host the guests at various tasting stations and answer questions about their favourite varietals and vintages. Children can also test their taste buds at the grape juice station. Enjoy a delicious Harvest Celebration Dinner with live music, Spier wines and spit roasts. Before heading home on Sunday, 24 April 2022, a breakfast buffet and bubbles will be served.Le Petit Chef to make Cape Town debut2 days ago From R3650 per person sharing, the weekend package includes: Two nights’ accommodation on a B&B basisA welcome drink at check-inWine in room on arrivalWine tasting event with Spier’s winemakersTwo dinners with wine includedFor more information, go here.