Source: www.unsplash.com The RDMAs is an initiative by spirits company, Diageo South Africa, with an aim to recognise media content that focuses on various aspects of alcohol in society, including the problem of misuse and interventions against it. Topics include issues such as alcohol policy, drunk driving, underage drinking, foetal alcohol syndrome, binge drinking and alcohol-related violence.  Any published material on any media platform that aims to support these is then eligible to enter the awards and win a prize. Judged by a broad mix of media professionals, the 2022 judging panel consisted of the chairperson of the South African National Editors Forum (Sanef), Sibusiso Ngalwa; award-winning journalist, Mary Papayya; the chairperson of the African Editors Forum, Jovial Rantao; award-winning broadcast journalist, Cathy Mohlahlana; the secretary-general of Sanef, Mahlatse Mahlase; multiple award-winning broadcast anchor, Leanne Manas and Sibani Mngadi, corporate relations director at Diageo SA.  SA government joins Partners Against Piracy1 day ago "As we celebrate a decade of the RDMAs, it is still so encouraging to see the multiple topics in the media promoting responsible drinking and discussing the role of alcohol in society," said Mngadi. "We want to thank all of the journalists who entered this year and wish all the finalists, good luck." The 2022 finalistsBest Newspaper (Commercial): Nivashni Nair and Graeme Hosken from Sunday Times, Sandisiwe Shoba from Daily Maverick and Ufrieda Ho, also from Daily Maverick.Best Newspaper (Community): Nielen de Klerk from The TygerBurger, Samantha Lee-Jacobs from People's Post and Shahied Joseph from Atlantic Sun.Best Magazine: Lisa Lottering from Wineland Media, Christian Eedes from WineMag and Wanda Augustyn, also from Wineland Media.Best TV: Kate Barry from Carte Blanche, Wandile Mofokeng from SABC 2 and Vital Signs and Lethiwe Mdluli from eNCA.Best Online: Ufrieda Ho from Daily Maverick, Tanya Farber from Sunday Times Live and Anton Pretorius from WineLand Media.Best Radio (Commercial): Jody Hendricks from RSG, Sara-Jayne King from Cape Talk and Pippa Hudson, also from Cape Talk.Best Radio (Community): Saziso Dlamini from Ugu Youth Radio and Faizel Patel from Radio Islam.Alcohol Policy Award: Pippa Hudson from Cape Talk, Katharine Child from Financial Mail and Charmaine Naidoo from Mail & Guardian.Influential Voice Award: Jana Marx from Media 24, Lisa Lottering from Wineland Media and Wanda Augustyn, also from Wineland Media. There will also be an award for Journalist of the Year for the overall best entry. Winners will be announced at an awards ceremony on 31 March and stand the chance of winning up to R50,000. For more information on the awards and to follow the newsfeed, you can visit the RDMA website.