Viceroy believes that looking to the past is essential for understanding our roots and shaping the characters of the generations to come. Therefore, they have created a platform called Vul’umlomo: Conversations on Culture. Mr. Robert Marawa, renowned host of the series says: “It's become increasingly important to reserve the essence of who we are as African people. A lot of our culture and its representation has been left open to interpretation from alternative sources. Being part of Vul'Umlomo enables a dialogue that reinforces the importance of our roots and shows how dynamic our culture is.”‘Vul'umlomo’ directly translates to 'open the mouth', which as a platform that encourages communities to have open discussions. Through its multi-directional and conversational approach, South Africans can air their views and share their experiences. "Our first conversation sparked a lot of interest and drove our community to speak openly on their perspectives around cultural norms. Our panellists drove the narrative, which helped the people better understand culture and fostered an environment where differences were accepted and identified", says Richard Papo, marketing manager for Viceroy. In our next session we unpack the implications of finances within culture and some associated practices such as lobola, ‘black tax’ and spirituality. Alongside Mr. Marawa, joining us again are esteemed cultural experts Mr Mbuso Khoza and Dr Bishop Jessica Mbangeni and with refreshed perspectives, decorated scholars of culture, modernist Ms Thabile Noxolo Buthelezi and traditionalist and spiritual advisor Mr Siyabonga Mkhize. "The latest session in the series airs on the 11th of March 2022 on Viceroy’s YouTube channel," added Papo.The public can participate in the discussions by posting their questions and comments on either Twitter @Viceroy_SA, Instagram @Viceroy.sa or Facebook @ViceroySouthAfrica with the hashtag #Vulumlomo.View the episode here:#Vulumlomo#StaySafeViceroy Brandy promotes responsible drinking. Not for persons under 18.  About Viceroy BrandyViceroy Brandy represents unmatched craftsmanship from the heart of the Vlottenburg Valley in Stellenbosch - where the Eerste River winds its way through the tranquil landscape, lays the legendary Van Ryn’s Distillery. Van Ryn’s is committed to protecting this age-old craft of brandy-making, delivering the pinnacle of excellence, making our brandy consistently recognised internationally.