Gabi Immelman, founder and CEO of MindjoyThe goal is to help kids develop a solid grasp of the principles behind neural networks and the philosophy of AI co-creation through hands-on projects.Says Mindjoy founder and CEO Gabi Immelman, “GPT-3 is the most advanced AI language model that humans have ever built, and it’s now open to the whole world to play with! What’s great about a language model like GPT-3 is that programs are written in English (or whatever language you speak), which means even your 70-year-old mom or 8-year-old child can use it naturally.”Projects in this track include the kids building a detailed and personal fantasy world in which their story takes place, writing a compelling plot-line using narrative templates, and then telling their story in long-form... all powered by kids and GPT-3’s natural language capabilities.OpenAI’s mission is to ensure that general-purpose AI benefits all of humanity, safely and responsibly. The AI research and deployment company’s API is a platform that makes advanced AI technologies available to developers and their users in a controlled way to ensure safety.  Equipping children with 4IR skills from an early age will increase their employabilityBy Ian Strydom 21 Dec 2021These aspects were particularly important to Mindjoy, which facilitates small-group online coaching sessions for kids ages 8+, teaching them essential 21st century skills through coding. The company has spent the last few months developing the AI and ML track, with assistance from developer and creative Dan Davey. Says Dan Davey, “Kids have amazing imaginations but often lack the tools to bring their ideas to life. That’s where AI comes in: Co-creation with artificial intelligence. This is an exciting new phase of human creativity and in this project track, kids will experience and explore what it means to be creative with AI helpers that they can program themselves. “The most exciting aspect is that after completing this track, kids will be equipped with the tools needed to tackle all sorts of life challenges with the help of AI - tools that help them build the future,” he adds.AI will power everything soonDavey shares the same excitement, as he explains that AI is the “new electricity” because even though the neural networks behind AI are a young technology, they’re starting to power all technology. Most people (including programmers) see computers the same way that teachers see kids: give them a series of instructions to follow, and make sure they do the “right” thing. Neural networks are a different ballgame. Instead of giving instructions to an AI, the AI itself grows with information and feedback as it builds a unique model of the world. This is also the Mindjoy way: helping kids to discover the world on their own terms, with guidance and support.“Writing stories with GPT-3 feels a lot like working with a smart and creative human and challenges ideas of what it means to be creative. It even makes us wonder about deep questions like consciousness and 'the self',” Immelman explains.Creativity’s futureThe future of creativity is exciting and magical: computers and humans can work together to make art and technology that’s more profound than what we can make on our own. With AI, everyone can have the tools to express themselves in ways they’ve never been able to, she says.“Growing up alongside AI means kids have the tools to build an amazing future for everyone, which is what Mindjoy is all about,” Immelman concludes.