Chief Executive Officer Emmanuel Ngulube and Daniel Eyre, general managerSouth Africa saw lacklustre performance from the state-owned enterprises and worse so private companies in the mining sector saw many reputable names closing their doors. The impact of Covid still making a sizeable impact on South African businesses. This level of unsustainability has unfortunately affected our business but not as direly as we had expected. We took the time to then to take a strategic position to further embed ourselves in the trade route. Seeing the silver lining through a Mzansi thunderstorm, we have managed to raise capital to inject into an undercapitalised commodity market. In turn, we took the opportunity toaccomplishthe goals that we had set out for ourselves in 2021. Solidifying our value chain, we accomplished our biggest goal in creating a full “pit-to-port solution”. Clockwise from right: Joshua Ngulube (junior analyst), Rolihlahla Sikiti (head Of business development), Michael Ngulube (head Of HR), Victor Mugadza (IT manager), Emmanuel Ngulube (commercial director), Louis ModauNkuna (site manager), MnwebaGobodo (head Of legal), Fuzile Nondumo (chief operations officer), and Moeketsi Mahlaku CA(SA) (chief financial officer), Daniel Eyre (general manager), Teddy Weru (head strategist).Choosing to undergo a strategic growth position, we found the right people to establish sustainable solutions. Focusing our attention on the international markets and bringing in international investments, we chose to broaden the lense from domestic trade and embark on including more international clients to our books. The world is going through a commodity cycle boom, we felt we were ready to serve and participate in the global conversation. Opening our doors to the world was the only way in which we saw fit to grow our customer base. Bridging the gap between Africa and the regions in Asia, Europe and the United States. Our journey of entrepreneurship has been fraught with many challenges over the nine years of operation, there has come great opportunity. None greater to date than being able to contribute to the community of Hendrina, an often neglected mining town in Mpumalanga. With the establishment of the IthembuLethu 4IR Lab at Tsiki Naledi Primary School, it will impact both the futures of the youth and South Africa.  It has been an honour to be a part of this life-changing project at Tsiki Naledi Primary School in Hendrina. We hope that it expands the minds of the learners and enlarges the borders of their imagination. Thank you to Software AG for your belief, in not just us, but in the youth and the hardworking people of Hendrina. Thank you to all of our partners that made this possible. Together, we can build the future that we imagine.When one starts a business, the primary goal is the focus on profit and what one may accumulate from their endeavours. However, we often tend to forget to consider the impact that business can have, not just for ourselves, but for those around us.