Greg HoffmanGreg Hoffman, former Nike chief marketing officer, global brand leader and one of Fast Company’s Most Creative People in Business, has been at the forefront of envisioning the power of brand storytelling and consumer experience. On 29 July 2022, Greg will share his insights with delegates at the 2022 Nedbank IMC virtual conference.During his more than 27 years at Nike, Greg oversaw the company’s brand communications and experiences as it solidified its position as one of the pre-eminent brand storytellers of the modern era. Today, Greg advises Fortune 1,000 brands, start-ups, and non-profits in creating brand strength, business growth and social impact.At the Nedbank IMC, Greg will hone in on marketing relevance by drawing insights and examples from his upcoming book, Emotion by Design, in which he shares his philosophy and principles on how to create an empowering brand that resonates deeply with people. In the Nedbank IMC address, Greg will also place special emphasis on driving social impact. Dale Hefer, chief executive officer of the Nedbank IMC, says that Greg’s focus is flawlessly aligned to this year’s Nedbank IMC theme, ‘Is it relevant? Marketing’s big ask’. Dale says that there are a handful of powerhouse brands around the globe, and Nike is one of them. Greg Hoffman is a brand visionary who has been at the forefront of understanding relevance and what matters to consumers. He has contributed to the elevation of brand storytelling and consumer experience into an absolute art. But more than that, he has proven the strong business case for creative excellence.Virtual tickets at R1,999 (excluding VAT)Group discounts are available.Book now at imcconference.com.Nedbank IMC 2022 bursaries are available at imcconference.com/imc-bursaries/.About the Nedbank IMCIn 2021, a total of 1,300 delegates from 14 countries around the world watched the live virtual conference. Since its launch in 2019, the Nedbank IMC has become known for its no sales-pitch, one stream, one-day format and galaxy of renowned and specialist speakers. Importantly, the conference is committed to presenting the business case for marketing, driven through the determination to secure marketing’s seat at the boardroom table.The Nedbank IMC is presented in association with the Marketing Association of South Africa (Masa), with chartered marketers receiving Continuous Professional Development Points (CPD) for attending. The conference is endorsed by the Interactive Advertising Bureau of South Africa.