Source: SuppliedBox2Boss is dedicated to investing in and uplifting the township economy, therefore, supporting the country’s development agenda. It is designed to transform aspirant entrepreneurs into fully-fledged businesspeople who can build businesses, create jobs, and provide a livelihood for themselves and others. Rebranding responds to the changing entrepreneurial landscapeTo design the best programme for the current South African entrepreneurial landscape, CCBSA reviewed the data of the initial round of participants based on the previous Bizniz in a Box participants. The results showed a significant shift in need from that of youth empowerment only to that of women and the more experienced entrepreneurs who seek specific support across varying chapters of their business ventures.  “Our entrepreneurs have spoken, and we have listened. The Box2Boss rebranding highlights this change and hopes to be a better solution for the entrepreneurs of 2022. We need to be responsive and in tune with what our communities are asking for. “It is by no means a handout but rather, support that will enable them to create their own livelihoods and be catapulted to the next level,” says Nozicelo Ngcobo, public affairs, communications and sustainability director at CCBSA. All the 2021 Gauteng Accelerator Programme Innovation competition winners25 Feb 2022To be considered to participate in the Box2Boss programme, candidates must be 24 years and older, have at least one year of entrepreneurial experience, and they must be an active member of the community. Ideally, each applicant’s business should address the needs of the local community such as convenience stores, fast foods stores, car washes and tshisanyamas. For the last seven years, the Bizniz in a Box initiative has enabled entrepreneurs to curate a developed business operations ecosystem, improve their skills, access capital, significantly improve supply chain development and inspire hope. To date, the initiative has trained over 700 entrepreneurs. “By helping and supporting one entrepreneur at a time, we believe Box2Boss will help enable, empower and create opportunities for entrepreneurs to build a brighter future for themselves and the communities around them,” Ngcobo concludes.