Unfortunately, life doesn’t always work out like that – from a surprise hailstorm to hitting a low wall while reversing (who put that there?!) to someone doing a bump ‘n run on your car in a shopping mall parking lot, scuffs happen. You wouldn’t be the first person to think, “Surely I can fix this myself?” especially as purse strings are tighter than ever. Every cent saved counts, right? While that may be true, trying to carry out work on your own could end up costing you more in the long run. Here’s why. 1. You might void your motor warranty Whether your motor warranty is provided by your car manufacturer or a third-party insurer (like dotsure.co.za!), having repairs or bodywork done by someone who isn’t an accredited professional (yourself included) may leave you in a situation where you lose your cover. 2.You probably don’t have the right tools Tools for bodywork are expensive and require specialised knowledge, no matter what ‘DIY dent kit’ marketers would have you believe. These kits provide a one-size-fits-all solution without tailoring it to your car or the damage, so it’s impossible for reviews to say whether it’ll work in your circumstances – if you get a cheap one, it’s unlikely to work; but an expensive one still might not work, plus you’ll be out of pocket a few thousand rand. 3.You could make it worse Even if your at-home repairs look the part, you could get rust forming under the repair or have a weak spot that reduces the integrity of the bodywork – and you wouldn’t even know it until you were in an accident. Professionals are trained to ensure that bodywork repairs are as strong as the original to keep you safe. 4.The dents could be hiding more serious damage On the surface, dents look like a cosmetic issue that can be easily fixed. But the truth is that even the most minor fender-benders could cause issues that won’t be noticed by someone who isn’t a professional. For example, a bruised bumper can knock your tyres out of alignment or cause the frame of your car to bend. While bumping your car might feel like a bump to your heart, sometimes the easiest way to fix it is to go to a professional, even it means biting the bullet and paying more than you initially hoped. As the old saying goes, “Fast, cheap, and good… Pick two. If it’s fast and cheap it won’t be good. If it’s cheap and good, it won’t be fast. If it’s fast and good, it won’t be cheap.” Which do you pick? Get the best of both (or all three) worlds with Silver, Gold or Platinum Motor Warranty from dotsure.co.za… We even cover some of your transport and towing costs* in the event of a breakdown! Get a free quote here. *T&Cs apply.