Read here. In this edition we focus on human rights. The Minister of Women, Youth and Persons with Disabilities, Honourable Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who is fighting for the rights of the vulnerable, is our Women in Leadership. We examine how the rapid development of Covid-19 vaccines has given hope for the development of tuberculosis vaccines and we celebrate International Women’s Day by discovering how including women in the workplace can unlock economic growth. Special features include:  We explore the major figures from the Budget Speech.  The KwaZulu-Natal State of the Province Address where huge private investments were announced.  Intellectual Property rights in the workplace - what belongs to who?  Our Trailblazer is the CEO of SANSA, Dr Valanathan Munsami.  South Africans are at a high risk of cybercrime and we share some tips on to avoid be defrauded online. It is a busy month for public sector leaders with our President paying a working visit to the DRC and co-chairing the roundtable discussion at the sixth meeting of the AU-EU annual summit taking place in Brussels, Belgium, where he also addressed a media conference at the launch of the SA Tech Hub. Our lead article in the March edition of Public Sector Leaders is on the appointment of Honourable Raymond Zondo as the new Chief Justice. All you need to know is right here, right now in this edition. March is Human Rights month and as such was launched by Honourable Nathi Mthethwa, Minister of Sport, Arts and Culture. We look to space with our Trailblazer for this month, Dr Valanathan Munsami, CEO of the South African National Space Agency. It is also TB month in South Africa and the focus of our regular feature, In Other News, is the advances in TB vaccine development. Our Women in Leadership for March is Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and we look at how her department is fighting for the rights of vulnerable South Africans. Minister of Finance Enoch GodongwanaMinister Maite Nkoana-MashabanePSL also brings you the latest Covid coverage - a jab analysis - is there light at the end of the tunnel? – and we take a look at Whaling and Phishing 2.0! - everything you need to know about online fraud. Our regular features include the calendar of upcoming events - and this month the regional focus is on KwaZulu-Natal, while in Legal Matters we look at intellectual property – what belongs to who in an organisation. Whether you are in the public sector, the private sector, supply chain or an interested individual, PSL has something for you. We hope you enjoy the read. Keep your finger on the pulse! To stay in the loop on all current affairs, check out the latest edition of the Public Sector Leaders publication on Issuu, here. For enquiries, regarding being profiled or showcased in the next edition of the Public Sector Leaders publication, please set up a appointment with our national project manager, Emlyn Dunn, here.