Image supplied: Managing director of Blu Blood, Osman Osman, and CEO of Blue Blood, Shaaista Osman. “When Blu Blood began discussions back in 2019, no-one foresaw what lay ahead for us all,” said Osman Osman, managing director of Blu Blood. “All things considered, Blu Blood has stayed resolute in realising this critically important venture, and we are incredibly proud and excited to breathe life back into this landmark venue.” Getting people back to work and welcoming audiences into the precious and much-loved space is now in the final stages of becoming a reality. Human Rights focused productions at Artscape for March3 days ago“We are committed to making a substantial investment into upgrading some of the facilities, which will include significant backstage renovations including a media and VIP room and upgrades on the various dressing rooms and management offices. We will be offering a full 360 service including production management, publicity, marketing, design and technical support,” said Blu Blood CEO, Shaaista Khan Osman. Many happy returnsBlu Blood has hosted many events at the theatre, including Dora the Explorer, Smurfs SA tour and Orlando Jones. As independent producers themselves, Blu Blood and many others have felt the real and damaging impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the entertainment sector. Its effect complicated the industry’s value chain, leaving all practitioners vulnerable and many with no source of income. “Peermont has successfully collaborated with Osman and Shaaista and the Blu Blood team for a number of years. With the Covid pandemic and the effect it has had on the entertainment industry, we have streamlined our business, refocussing on the core gaming component, which made Osman’s proposal to take over the management of the Theatre of Marcellus, the right decision at this point in time,” says complex operations executive, Clive Tavener. “We are looking forward to many full houses and standing ovations.” Image supplied: The Theatre of Marcellus at Emporers Palace The Arts has always been a sector where performers and audiences could express identities while maintaining emotional and mental well-being. Amid the pandemic, people relied on entertainment for that support. With a new year teasing, Blu Blood, along with its team of creatives, is looking forward to the return of live performance for all to enjoy. The beautiful 1,000-seated theatre (only 50% capacity allowed under current lockdown restrictions), is fit to continue to provide audiences with show-stopping entertainment across dance, musicals, comedy and theatre, as well as being available for corporate events and functions.