Source: www.unsplash.comEcological sustainability, women’s empowerment, inter-brand collaboration and proudly local production investment are some of the dynamic developments that mark the collection.  Ephraim Molingoana for Ephymol, Amanda Laird Cherry and Palesa Mokubung of Mantsho as well as cult Kasi brand, Loxion Kulca, now designed by Olé Ledimo, will launch their 2022 collections to the media, buyers, selected VIP’s and a limited edition of public tickets. This alongside exciting new stars including 2021 New Talent winner Artho Eksteen as well as Fikile Zamagcino Sokhulu and Sipho Mbuto who both participated in the Fashion Bridges collaboration with Milan Fashion Week last year.  Columbia Sportswear Econyl - A fabric made out of marine waste22 Mar 2022Hosted by Maps Maponyane, the 24th New Talent Search will again open the event with a line-up of six of the most promising young designers to watch. This year’s contenders are:Thando Ntuli - MunkusNichole Smith - IpikokoMikhile du Plessis - MeKay DesignsCalvin Lunga Cebekhulu - Czene.24Sanelisiwe Gcabashe – Gjenelo CoutureMimangaliso Ndiko - Sixx6What to expectOther highlights of the first day are the Cruz Collective featuring Sokhulu and Mbuto as well as another new generation notable, Michael Ludwig Studio.Day two opens with The Oppo Collections which brings Artho Eksteen, Ezokhetho, the gender-neutral signature, The Bam Collective and the much revered Amanda Laird Cherry together. This is followed by the high-profile trio of Cape Town-based Helon Melon who wowed audiences in 2021 with her all-white, sustainable collection, fashion-forward Judith Atelier, an ardent supporter of South African mohair and perennial fashion week darling, Palesa Mokubung of Mantsho.Shudufhadzo Musida shines at Miss World Pageant18 Mar 2022Joanna Hedley of BeachCult and Belhauzen will be there and are both Cape Town-based designer brands committed to clean fashion.  Equally, Johannesburg-based Kayla Stamboul of Kayla Stam proudly supports women empowerment with a fully female-owned supply chain while Pretoria-based Isabel de Villiers is a body-positive activist who will unveil her current, size-inclusive, collection. The SAFW Collections Men on Saturday 30 April throws a spotlight on the excitement that is contemporary menswear design in South Africa with the power trio consisting of Ntando Ngwenya who merges conservative and postmodern techniques to create a distinctively new clothing presentation, Thato Mafubedu’s Afrikanswiss denimwear and the much-loved Loxion Kulca brand currently under the baton of Olé Ledimo.An exciting new collaboration between designers Fabrice Moyo of Franc Elis, menswear brands Floyd Avenue and Ephymol, with KwaZulu-Natal-based and proudly South African shoe manufacturers Eddels, Evox and Hopewell Footwear respectively, marks an exciting grand finale for the Spring/Summer 22 Collection, says SAFW director, Lucilla Booyzen.The importance of fashionThe South African Footwear and Leather Export Council (Saflec) is proud to be making industry history with its inaugural association with SA Fashion Week this year, says Nerisha Jairaj, executive director of Saflec. “We are thrilled to be flying our ‘Made in South Africa’ banner with the debut of three of our most exciting footwear brands for men on this high profile and prestigious platform so that a wider audience may discover the remarkable capability of fashion South Africa.”Puma and Minecraft reveal streetwear collab18 Mar 2022Maishe Mambolo, brand manager of Cruz Vodka, believes that fashion reflects the culture of a country. “It’s about more than clothing. Fashion becomes the attitude you wear. People in fashion have an appreciation of art, design, and culture with an affinity for beauty.” The SAFW’22 Spring/Summer Collections will be showcased from 28 – 30 April, Parkade G5, Entrance 24 at Mall of Africa. Tickets can be purchased here.Information on each designer can be found here along with biographies and contact details.