Image supplied: 15 on Orange in Cape Town, South Africa Sure to feel right at home in the City Bowl hotel, ‘Le Petit Chef in The Footsteps of Marco Polo’ takes guests along a six-course culinary journey across the diverse mystical and magical regions traversed by the legendary explorer. The menu begins with inspiration from France, with guests at the show’s communal tables being taken along a culinary journey in search of the greatest spices that Marco Polo would have encountered along the Silk Road. “This is truly a remarkable and unique dining adventure, never seen before in Cape Town – a city that is accustomed to the finest dining experiences that the world has to offer,” says Garnet Basson, the Capital’s chief operating officer. “We are so proud that Le Petit Chef has chosen our hotel to introduce this incredible show to the Cape Town market, and we’re looking forward to a successful run of the show, in our specifically adapted venue.” Image supplied: Le Petit Chef offers a unique culinary experienceLe Petit Chef sails away from Marseilles by folding a piece of paper into a boat and the first course is served in a suitcase. The second scene is set in Arabia and its course is served in an ornate black box, and diners must solve a puzzle to open it. Each course has its own inspiration and intrigue, building anticipation throughout the two-hour experience, while live entertainment inspired by each location adds even more fun and excitement to the show. Even though Le Petit Chef’s unique experience is offered in more than 51 locations worldwide, his story has been customised for his South African audience. The local story is built off the tale of a South African who runs into Le Petit Chef while backpacking in France and becomes his assistant – eventually bringing him home to Cape Town. The Test Kitchen Carbon opens doors in Johannesburg11 Mar 2022 “The Capital 15 on Orange is the perfect home for Le Petit Chef in Cape Town, with its elegantly sophisticated offering, and beautifully appointed suites and apartments for guests who choose to travel from afar to enjoy the experience, as well as those from Cape Town itself who just choose to take a specially themed staycation,” says Paul Rouessart, managing member of 100% Event, the South African license holder of the Le Petit Chef in South Africa. #DinnerTimeStories with Le Petit Chef is set to run for at least five shows a week. Reservations can be booked at Computicket and more info can be found on the Le Petit Chef website.