Source: www.unsplash.comOn 16 March, Artscape aims to celebrate Small’s legacy as a poet and struggle icon for human rights through his works and deeds in the production Die Poet: Wie’s Hy. Under the leadership of Frieda van den Heever, and interpreted by Dean Balie and the Khoisan Gypsy Band, the production is based on the works of Small. As a young intellectual, Small strongly advocated the use of one’s voice. It was this medium which he used to denounce various human rights abuses under the Apartheid government. He did this using various public platforms such as newspaper columns, open letters, his poems, plays, essays and public speaking. This production presented in conjunction with Toyota Woordfees and Nati, has won five KykNet Fiesta 2021 awards including Best New Text, Translation or Rework based on its roaring successes at both the Suidoosterfees and the Woordfees. The Constitutional Hill Human Rights Festival is back!2 days agoAs part of Human Rights Day events, the Manfred Zylla Rural Outreach Exhibition will showcase the works of Small in various genres from Classical Western to African indigenous, as well well-known personalities that reflect Artscape’s rural outreach programme. This programme, which annually identifies a historically disadvantaged community within the urban boundaries of rural areas to “take the theatre to the community”, affirms the right of everyone to enjoy, participate in and have access to artistic, cultural, heritage and linguistic rights as per the Constitution. The works will be on display in the Marble Foyer Extension from 16 March to 21 April. Artscape CEO Marlene le Roux said, “Throughout history and in particular South African history, the arts has always played a pivotal role to highlight, conscientise and expose human rights violations whether they were Apartheid inspired, gender based violence or deprivation of socio-economic liberties. As a cultural institution we pride ourselves on giving artists a platform throughout the years to continue focusing on these pertinent issues” Human Rights focused productions at Artscape for March3 Mar 2022All activities comply with all Covid-19 regulations including social distancing and patrons must wear masks for entry. Tickets are available and can be booked at Computicket or Artscape Dial-a-seat 021 421 7695. Visit the Artscape website for more information.