Image by Lesley Mphanga and Imameleng Masitha: Lihle Njaba and Sibongile Molai in Tichichema For the first time this year, the festival is the product of hybrid mentorship programmes that included script writing mentorship for writers, as well as mentorship workshops for directors in an aim to produce the best in developmental theatre.  The Baxter Zabalaza Theatre Festival commences with Family Day on Saturday, 2 April, curated by the Fun Squad that includes a variety of food stalls and a jumping castle for children to enjoy. Performances for children will run from 9.45am to 12pm. A showcase of the Best of DCAS also takes place on the day with participants from the Overberg, Cape Winelands, West Coast and the Garden Route Districts.  For adult audiences, the Saturday evening offers a selection of performance experiences. An energetic and fresh poetry performance takes place in the Baxter Garden at 5pm and theatre-lovers can experience Shadows of the Past at the same time in the Golden Arrow Studio. Raw (Real Art Wednesdays) returns to the line-up with a vibrant platform for a variety of talented performers, in the Concert Hall at 7.30pm.  Maynardville stage reopens for one night only17 Mar 2022The 32 productions on the main festival, from 4 to 8 April 2022, with performances at 9.45am, 11am, 12pm and 7pm daily, were selected from the mini-festivals which were held over two weekends at the end of January 2022 at the Delft Rent Office, Kraai4theatre in Kraaifontein and the Makukhanye Art Room in Khayelitsha.  The gala awards ceremony takes place on 9 April, where various productions and artists will be chosen in various categories and the Best of Zabalaza winner will be announced.  The festival is curated by Mdu Kweyama along with Zabalaza team members, Bulelani Mabutyana (coordinator), Tshegofatso Mabutla (festival administrator) and Nonsikelelo Maboza (audience development).  This year’s programme boasts a wide range of content and themes that include negligence in the medical industry, conversations around the influence of media on the sense of self and value, the questioning of religion and dogma and how the effects of abuse and domestic trauma affect the performance of learners at places of education.  Image by Lesley Mphanga and Imameleng Masitha: Brian Mlaudzi, Amahle du Toit, Asiphumeze Stuurman, Qhama Mtshemla, Uvile Gogwana and Future Menjenjalo in EskolweniPartners and funders include the Western Cape Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, City of Cape Town, Distell Foundation, HCI Foundation and Pick n Pay. Junket Publishing continues its affiliation by publishing the script of the winning production from the main festival.  Tickets are R30 per show and available online or at Pick n Pay stores.  Schools and organisations with group bookings have the option of affordable transportation offered by Golden Arrow Bus services at R5 per person, for groups of more than 40, with a strict maximum of 60 people per bus. For school or group bookings, fundraisers or charities contact Carmen Kearns on 021 680 3993 or email her at carmen.kearns@uct.ac.za or Nontsikelelo Maboza on 021 680 3984 or email her at nonstikelelo.maboza@uct.ac.za