Source: www.unsplash.comIn addition to out-of-the-ordinary wine tastings from tank samples to older vintages, there will be blend-your-own-wine opportunities, a range of dining options from tapas and picnics to a traditional spitbraai and more formal offerings, a true farm-style market and several live music shows. The region is also well-known as a hub for avid walkers and mountain bikers, epicureans and parents seeking plenty of run-around space for the kiddies.Here are what you can expect from each Harvest Festival host from The Durbanville Wine Valley: Durbanville HillsDurbanville Hills will host barrel tastings, a market, live music and picnics in its programme. Barrel tastings will take place at Tangram restaurant, with lunch and dinners served from 18 to 20 March. A tasting of six wines will be available for R105pp. Brandon-Lee Hunt will keep visitors entertained with live music on Sunday, 20 March. Picnics will be available from Saturday to Monday during this period. Priced at R500, the picnics will be dispensed on a first come-first served basis and include a charcuterie and cheese board for two, a bottle of Durbanville Hills wine and a dessert platter. A market will also be hosted in the wine cellar, on Saturday and Sunday and feature a variety of independent farm and artisan vendors. Entrance to the market is free of charge.Boschendal Farm hosts events for March3 days agoThe winery is open Friday 1oam- 5pm, Saturday 1oam-4pm, Sunday 11am-4pm and Monday 10am-4pm. To book, call (021) 558 1300.De GrendelThe De Grendel winery has compiled a series of out-of-the-ordinary tasting tours consisting of a cellar tour, wine tastings, cheese board and snacks-for-two and a blending experience where you can make your own wine. As added motivation, the best wine to be produced will receive a special prize. The tours are available on 19 and 20 March at 10am. They’re limited to 16 guests, in four groups of four per tour. The cost is R300pp. To book, email tristan@degrendel.co.za.MeerendalThe Meerendal winery is offering a true wine-lover’s experience that provides an early-bird view of the latest harvest. The guided tour will take you to the cellar, giving you the opportunity to taste young white wines from their tanks and red wines that have just been transferred to barrels. Your guides will be winemaker Thys Smit, viticulturist Damien Cadle and Cape Wine Master, Bennie Howard. A hearty brunch will be followed by a young-wine tasting to prepare you for a tutored tasting of the Meerendal bottled wine range presented by the same team of experts. The unique, three-hour tasting and brunch event takes place on 19 March only, starting at 9.30am. The all-inclusive cost is R350pp.Source: www.unsplash.comBookings are essential as only 20 seats are available. Contact Rene Francis to book on tasting@meerendal.co.za.DiemersdalDiemersdal will host a tapas menu inspired by Sauvignon blanc. With every main meal ordered at lunch and dinner, you get a complimentary glass of 2022 Diemersdal Sauvignon Blanc. The offering is available on 18-20 March, with a different tapas offering on Sunday. Notably, the complimentary wine is among the first of the latest vintage Sauvignon Blancs to be released. The winery will also be open from 12pm to 3pm on 21 March. Reservations should be made via www.diemersdal.co.za. Klein RoosboomFamous for its intimate former wine tank tasting rooms, Klein Roosboom, will present grape stomping and live music in true harvest-celebration style on 21 March from 12pm to 3pm. The performing band is Radiophonia. Jéan Deli will trade as normal on the day.Source: www.unsplash.comOn 19 and 20 March wine tasting takes place from 10am to 5pm. Jéan Deli restaurant will be open Friday 9am - 5pm, and Sunday 8am - 4pm. To book for the restaurant, send an email to bookings@kleinroosboom.co.za. For wine tastings, book via www.kleinroosboom.co.za.Signal GunWinery-on-a-hill Signal Gun presents live entertainment too as well as a harvest spitbraai and picnics. These will be offered on 19 and 20 March from 10am. The winery also plans to have a lucky draw with the main prize being a wine safari tour. For more, email foh@signalgun.com or call 021 976 0770.Groot PhesantekraalEnjoy farm-to-table tapas for two at Groot Phesantekraal, which is renowned for its wines and exceptional restaurant. The dishes include an option of slow-roasted lamb shoulder with onions and red wine jus paired with a glass of Berliet Pinotage or a seared salmon with herb hollandaise and shaved fennel, paired with a glass of Marizanne Sauvignon Blanc. Side dishes are included too.The special offer is available on 18 and 19 March for R650 per couple. Booking is essential and may be done by emailing restaurant@phesantekraal.co.za or on Tel: 021 825 0060.MaastrichtTaste wine to live music at Maastricht, which has engaged the services of a performer on 21 March. The tasting room will also be open on Saturday, 10am-4pm and Sunday, 10am - 4pm. No booking is required, and entry is free.CantoCanto will share the experience of their wine in a fun, informal and interactive fashion, at a long table of food and wine. Taking place on Saturday, 19 March, the winery team will lead a sensory journey after which you can create your ideal pizza to pair with four Canto wines. The price of R220pp for the full experience includes a glass of bubbly on arrival. To book, email info@cantowines.co.za or call 021 492 2821.Sosiaal Wynfees launches in Swartland1 Mar 2022For more information about Durbanville Wine Valley, go here. Wines of the region are available here.