“Bula Sekele” (a phrase used in popular culture, meaning ‘make the circle bigger’) is a call to open up the dance floor to let more people in to share in the experience. It’s an invitation for anyone new to jump into the centre of the circle to display their skills, pass on the energy and positivity, and inspire whoever is up next. On a higher level, it’s also a call to uplift a nation, to open up the industry, to make the circle of opportunity bigger – a platform for untapped grassroots dance talent to explode onto the professional dance scene in South Africa.“We are a nation driven by dance,” says Extreme Energy marketing manager, Natasha Coppin. “We’ve always expressed ourselves through dance. We dance in the face of adversity. It is rooted deep within us, and it comes as naturally as breathing. Dancing is energy, loved by our consumers and it connects us to others in a positive way, thereby making it the perfect fit for Extreme Energy.”An important aspect of the Bula Sekele initiative is the partnership between Extreme Energy and SboNdaba Dance, a non-profit company led by Sbonakaliso Ndaba, a leading contemporary African choreographer with many prestigious awards to her name. SboNdaba Dance is actively involved in uplifting communities through dance and runs on-the-ground training and development programmes with dancers from disadvantaged areas.“With their focus on dance teacher training and actual job creation as a result, SboNdaba Dance was a logical choice for the brand to partner with,” continues Coppin. “By combining our energies, we’re able to collectively uplift Mzansi’s dancers and create real change where it matters most – at community level.”Director of SboNdaba Dance, Sbonakaliso Ndaba agrees: “The partnership with Extreme Energy will enable SboNdaba Dance to widen the circle of opportunities available to our dancers and teachers, from securing official industry accreditation to evolving our programme into an exciting job creation platform for aspiring dancers.”Another aspect of the Bula Sekele initiative is a nationwide dance talent competition wherein four Extreme Moovah’s will ultimately dance their way to a professional qualification sponsored by the brand, and the opportunity to feature in a music video.To enter, aspiring street dancers that are strictly over the age of 18, are being asked to upload their one minute dance audition clips to Instagram or Twitter with the hashtags #ExtremeEnergy and #BulaSekele. Entrants can choose to show how they “feel the energy” to either a House or Soul track of their choice. In 2021, Extreme Energy launched new House and Soul sensory music variants, a world-first and a chance to experience music in a can. Now, with Bula Sekele, the focus shifts to how consumers feel the energy of these popular music genres through dance.It’s only through making the circle of opportunity bigger and combining energies that we’re able to drive societal change for the greater good. Through Bula Sekele, Extreme Energy is looking to actively show how the positive energy of dance can facilitate real, positive change in South African’s lives and uplift communities.Aspiring dancers and enthusiasts over the age of 18 can join the campaign and follow the action on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter @ExtremeEnergySA #BulaSekeleTerms and conditions apply. Extreme Energy supports responsible drinking. Alcohol not for persons under the age of 18 years.Follow the action on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter @ExtremeEnergySA.