In an ideal utopia, a single solution would fit a host of challenges, but in life (as we’ve all learnt through some tough lessons) there is no perfect universal fit. There simply is not a solution that is the right fit for a variety of situations – let alone one that fits each individual or personality.What makes life exciting is that we all have unique lived experiences. Life is relative. Life is packed full of variables and we each perceive an experience in different ways due to the lens through which we view the world around us. No moment in time, walk in the park, or roaring guffaw is experienced in the same way. Isn’t life great?Design authenticityIn all that we do, we’re communicating. Continually sending and receiving messages. Visual communication cannot be excluded from this mix. In today’s fast-paced world led by a host of digital trends, one needn’t look far to find a plethora of templates that, by their very nature, imply a one size fits all solution. Yes, you know just the sort that we’re talking about. While many templates indeed hold a place in the digital space – delivering a low-cost solution to having a digital presence – it is becoming increasingly clear that this type of general-purpose solution is becoming an acceptable norm. Steadily, this approach leaves us with a sense of disconnectedness and an almost robotic approach to engagements. Most concerning of all, is that a growing number of creative agencies are adopting this mechanical standard of work.As in life, so too in digital, there are just no magic wands or templates. Templatising any work limits the possibilities to share and enjoy unique experience. When agencies adopt a templatised style of working, it leads to diminished creativeness and the adoption of a single approach to differing client needs.Be human. Be unique. Be youCertainly (as many years of research into trends has proven) some common patterns, behaviours, and structures benefit greatly from a tried and tested recipe for success. This is an effective and acceptable approach. Another certainty, however, is that each brand, client, project, and audience member is unique, and they all have differing needs and expectations. As an agency, we have a duty to respect their uniqueness and to celebrate it by providing solutions that are tailored to their individual needs. In short – custom needs require custom solutions. As an agency, that’s where we can bring real and far-reaching value. Adding value to the lived experience of both client and audience.Taking time to delve deep and to explore the particularities (and peculiarities) of each project, we’re able to highlight the nuances that make the brand and its audience different and exciting. Here is where we get to do what so few industries do, and that is to create a special recipe that brings to life a distinctive personality and we tweak it to match the special tastes of the audience. We achieve this by adding just the right mix of spice, emotion, expression, and experience to each project. What a great privilege that is!In experiencing the wonderful spice of life, agencies should be analytic, sometimes critical, certainly methodical, and most of all, experts in communicating stand-out personalities and top-quality ideas. What agencies are not (or not just yet) are robots programmed simply to manufacture.Exploring the right solutionRecipes require ingredients, and the same ingredients can be used to create an expanse of outputs.Striving for a unique solution doesn’t require that we reinvent or recreate the ingredients of design. Rather, it requires a dissection of multiple parts, so that we’re able to make improvements to what is available to us. It requires that we take a considered and smart approach to creative exploration. As agency, we have a duty to our clients not to simply mimic solutions, but to see the bigger picture and to go beyond. We should ensure that one solution is right for one project.WayFillian, an agency built on a solid foundation of years of industry experience and expertise, is an agency committed to creating tailored solutions for each client and project. WayFillian take time to forge long-lasting relationships with clients and client teams – acknowledging their individuality and collective uniqueness. The managing director of WayFillian, Ben Krawchuk, offers some sound advice in saying that agencies should “embrace the differences and question the standards”. Ben is the embodiment of the WayFillian family offering leadership through his technical understanding, unsurpassed skill set, and most of all – passion. These ingredients, he adds, are the staples that make up the WayFillian team.To find out more about WayFillian, whether you’re just curious or if you have an exciting project, get in touch with them for a personalised experience. Connect with WayFillian at https://www.wayfillian.co.za/ or follow the company’s social media: Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram accounts.