There is a wide variety of mirrors for sale that will fit any wall-space – but while a beautiful mirror looks great in your bathroom or dressing room, there are a number of other ways in which using mirrors as décor pieces can accentuate different areas of your home. 1.	Mirrors increase the presence of natural lightIf you have a dark room, try hanging a mirror near or on the other side of a window to help brighten the space. When sunlight strikes a reflecting surface, it will bounce back, illuminating the surrounding area.In order to lessen the demand for artificial light, mirrors can be utilised to boost daylight penetration and harvesting. Many studies have shown that natural light has a positive effect on people's mood and behaviour, yet it's not always easy to sit right next to a window. As a result, mirrors can be used to solve the problem of low lighting and save energy at the same time. 2.	Mirrors increase the size of a roomIf your home's small rooms are making you feel cramped, try using mirrors to give the illusion that the space is much larger than it actually is. Mirrors may make a room appear larger, brighter, and more open because of their ability to reflect light and colour. Additionally, mirrors come in an almost infinite variety of forms and sizes, with models to meet every budget.3.	Mirrors are a statement pieceAs a statement piece, a mirror is an excellent choice. This is due to the fact that, as previously noted, they are excellent at reflecting light. Added to this, decorative mirrors come in a wide variety of elaborate and eye-catching designs. An arch with silver trimming, for example, might give your room a more elegant and refined appearance.4.	Mirrors can highlight the textures of a roomReflecting the texture of other furnishings can be achieved by using mirrors. This might be anything from a set of brightly coloured throw pillows to an art collection that you want broaden throughout the space.Texture can also be added to a mirror by using elegant and elaborate framing techniques. A rustic look can be achieved, for example, by using wood detailing on a mirror.5.	Mirrors can be used to cleverly mask imperfections in a roomMirrors are useful for a variety of reasons. They act as a focal point, making a room appear larger and brighter as a result of their presence. But mirrors can also be used to conceal any flaws in the wall's texture or appearance. To do so, simply place your mirror on the faulty area and observe how it transforms the environment completely, while also concealing that pesky wall blemish.