Rogerwilco has launched a digital PR service within the agency. The move aligns with the latest Agency Scope Survey (November 2021). More than 80.2% of marketing professionals in South Africa rated digital capabilities as very important or important in their agency selection criteria, making it one of the leading criteria for which agencies are selected.  So significant is a digital capability within the perception and performance of creative agencies now that the marketing professionals surveyed deemed it an even more critical selection criterion than having no conflict within the same sector (80.2 vs 48.3%). Announcing the launch of its digital PR services, Rogerwilco CEO Charlie Stewart says, “Last year we won the Financial Mail AdFocus South African Digital Agency of the Year award. At the time, we mentioned that we had growth initiatives in the pipeline for 2022 and beyond. Formalising our digital PR capability is one of these, while also adding to the scope of digital and other services we can now offer both existing and new clients.”  Offering digital PR alongside other services is set to enhance clients' search marketing and brand awareness. The Rogerwilco digital PR team includes content marketers, SEO specialists, strategists, business analysts and data scientists, all using in-house skills and systems to capitalise on the wealth of information already available in every digital footprint today and enhance that for clients.  “PR is such an important element of the communications matrix for any business, but doing it digitally, with real insight and impact, is fundamentally different to its traditional approach,” says Stewart. “We believe that our digital-savvy combined with our bespoke WOLF technology, a digital analysis and research tool, can offer something quite innovative for CMOs and lead marketers. Our approach to digital PR will allow them to be targeted and intentional in their PR approach, with the added benefit of tracking the impact.” In the same survey, 51.7% of marketing professionals rated integrated services as very important or important when choosing an agency. Rogerwilco sees the launch of its new digital PR offering as answering this need.