Graduates of the first-ever MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) Scriptwriting Incubator.MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) is a year-long filmmaking training programme offered in 14 countries across Africa and includes producing films for broadcast on M-Net local channels and Showmax. The MTF in South Africa launched a Scriptwriting Incubator – a first for Africa. This is run in partnership with the University of the Witwatersrand’s Film and Television Department and Tshedza Pictures, producers of Legacy, The River and Giyani: Land of Blood. The programme offers practical workplace experience and mentorship from experienced South African producers and scriptwriters.“At MultiChoice, sustainability forms the basis of our CSI initiatives. As Africa’s Most Loved Storyteller, we set out to create learnership programmes that are not only informative but also provide candidates with insightful practical experience for ease of entry into the workplace,” said Collen Dlamini, group executive of corporate affairs at MultiChoice. “We honour our African roots through the stories we tell. It’s important that MultiChoice continues to build on this narrative in everything we do.”The programme started in February 2021 and was open to all South Africans with a passion and talent for writing, including those with no formal education. Several applications were received and the top 40 were selected to undergo a writing test. Based on this, 20 people were interviewed and 12 final interns selected. The end goal was for interns to pitch a palette for a drama series that was good enough for the channel to commission. Five movies have already been commissioned by the channel. “We are incredibly proud of our graduates. One of them has written an episode of The River (S4, episode 147), five have been offered employment by Tshedza Pictures, while other graduates already have jobs lined up,” Dlamini added. Based on learnings from the MTF Scriptwriting Incubator, MultiChoice will look to expand the programme to other hubs in Africa.