Scheduled for The Galleria in Sandton on Saturday, 7 May, Johannesburg’s newest commercial radio station has been gearing up to welcome its growing audience of loyal listeners to its first-ever event, and the response has been overwhelming, with Ticketmaster revealing just how quickly tickets flew off their site. “We’re blown away by just how much our audience wants to get out and party, after being starved of quality entertainment for so long,” says Lloyd Madurai, managing director of Hot 102.7FM. “We also love the fact that they trust Hot 102.7FM to deliver a great night out, and what better way to do that than in the company of the city’s favourite ‘Old Skool’ station.” The Gimme Gimme Gimme ABBA Party is being hosted by Hot 102.7FM off the back of a stunning on-air campaign that’ll see two lucky listeners win an all-expenses-paid trip to watch ABBA Voyage in London in the coming months. “We’re not just sending listeners to London – we thought we’d throw our own ABBA party!” says Madurai. Lloyd MaduraiSteven ChambersShawny BTony MurrellHot 102.7FM is promising partygoers a night of ABBA’s greatest hits, plus the best music from the 1980s from the station’s world-class DJs - Club Classics host Lloyd Madurai, 80s disco king Shawny B, Joburg’s Hottest Breakfast Show host Tony Murrell, and the sensational Steven Chambers. Further bolstering the line-up and the night’s entertainment, Brent Harris and Thee Jam will be playing a live set and ensuring partygoers have a jam-packed night full of ‘Old Skool’ music to party the night away with. The Gimme Gimme Gimme ABBA Party is a dress-up occasion, so Hot 102.7FM will be asking partygoers to bring out the Agnetha, Benny, Anni-Frid and Bjorn in them, and get their dancing shoes on! Think disco balls, lights, and non-stop action! It’ll be a night to remember and the best in Hot 102.7FM entertainment, with food trucks providing delicious food for guests, and even a coffee stand on hand to offer a warm drink for the last round. The Gimme, Gimme, Gimme ABBA Party, brought to you by Hot 102.7FM, is scheduled to start at 19h30 at The Galleria in Sandton on Saturday, 7 May, and run through until 02h00.