The campaign reminds South Africans that good things come to those who don’t wait to invest.Watch the TVC here:The 360 campaign executed by Ogilvy recounts how living your best life is possible, if you start early enough to reap the benefits sooner. The message across outdoor, radio, digital, social and TV is simple: the sooner you invest your money, the sooner you get to enjoy it.“This first of its kind campaign takes Coronation’s brand values of integrity and long-term thinking to a whole new level,” says Peter Little, executive creative director at Ogilvy. “What’s more, it’s a shining example of cracking the traditional mould of advertising and fostering borderless creativity between our agencies.”Number 10’s founder, Ahmed Tilly emphasises that this is not a retirement campaign; this is a financial freedom campaign that aims to encourage consumers to take action and live the life they dream of sooner, by investing with Coronation today.The TV commercial, envisioned by Tilly and produced by Dean Blumberg of Massïf Films, plays into the idea of old-school ‘destination’ advertising – shot in a style that resembles classic, nostalgic excursions to bucket list destinations. The cast: Extravagant travelers who are simply too old to truly enjoy life’s big rewards after waiting too long to invest.Tilly says he loved the process with the entire Ogilvy team. “Working alongside Ogilvy in this way offers the truest sense of collaboration – it’s a whole new approach to creativity.”Wendy Bergsteedt, Group Head of Marketing at Coronation, adds, “the work that our agency partners have created, cuts through the clutter of traditional messaging around investing – positioning Coronation as a brand that inspires investors to see investing in a fresh, accessible and insightful way.It has the nostalgia. It captures the essence of living the kind of life we all work so hard for. Most importantly, it reminds us that “Yes, this is the life. This is living it to its core. So... What are you waiting for?”