Source: Supplied. Pharma Dynamics' chief executive officer, Erik Roos.To mark the important milestone, it is inviting staff, patients, pharmacists, healthcare practitioners and all those who helped to shape the company in the last two decades to collaboratively participate in the creation of a digital artwork that will take on the form of a heart.Erik Roos, chief executive officer of Pharma Dynamics says choosing the illustration of a heart is not only a symbol of the company’s longstanding position as the market leader in cardiovascular medication, but also symbolises the heartbeat of the organisation.“The artwork is our story that defines and articulates the way in which each employee and the company as a whole, is improving the human condition in a meaningful and sustainable way. Furthermore, it is symbolic of the connection and causal effect between the company and its stakeholders – together making a difference in the world”.The miracle of soundPharma Dynamics’ digital sculpture takes shape in response to sound. The more people contribute their voices in the form of voice messages, the more intricate the sculpture becomes.Since the introduction of digital technology, sound art is becoming more popular and comes in various forms, including kinetic sound sculptures, sound-walks, poetry and in Pharma Dynamics’ case, the spoken word. It’s a new wave of sonic artistry that uses tones and audio effects to create an artistic expression – the same way a painter uses colours on a canvas.Roos says just like every business is unique and follows a different growth journey of expansion and consolidation, no one journey is ever the same.“The artwork represents our transformative business journey from startup to maturity, and is meant to be a compilation of heartfelt stories from people who helped us to get where we are now.”Pharma Dynamics has much to celebrate. It is the ninth largest pharmaceutical and sixth largest generic company in South Africa, with 19 market-leading brands, operating in 30 therapeutic areas, which include cardiovascular, neuroscience, pain, digestive health, female healthcare, critical care, antibiotics, and complementary and alternative medicines (CAMS), among others.It is a level 4 BBBEE company and has remained a leading supplier of cardiovascular medication in the country for more than a decade amid fierce competition.A growing enterpriseRoos says it’s difficult to fathom that the small company, that started with only a handful of people some 20 years ago, now employs more than 160 staff countrywide. Over the years, the company has significantly contributed to the South African economy, not only in terms of broadening medicine access, but also in terms of job creation and social investment.“As we look back on our growth, accomplishments and relationships built with our customers, we would like to thank everyone who has been involved in supporting Pharma Dynamics in reaching 20 years of success. It has been made possible, because of the trust that healthcare professionals and patients put in our products and due to our incredible team that goes the extra mile every day to service customers the best they can.Artfluence Human Rights festival goes live9 hours ago“In a way, companies are like families. We build them with all our heart, putting our blood, sweat and tears into making them grow and flourish. At Pharma Dynamics, we are a family and our values of integrity, passion for service excellence, teamwork, respect, care and entrepreneurial spirit underpin everything we do. Our values shape our culture and are our unique heartbeat. "Together we have created a company known for its quality products, services and commitment to making healthcare affordable and accessible to all.“While we celebrate our 20-year success, we remain future focused. We have already set new goals and benchmarks that we look forward to achieving in the coming years, and are directing our talent, focus and energy toward applying new ideas and tools for improving health for all,” says Roos.To participate in Pharma Dynamics’ sonic sculpture, visit  their website for instructions. Your unique contribution is downloadable for you to keep.