Image supplied: Radio DJ and MC Mpumi 'Msakazi' MsakaziMsakazi’s new show ‘The Hustlers Fix’ airs from 2am to 5am on weekdays. “I want to say that it’s been nine years of trying to get to where I am today. Success does not happen overnight, it takes a while - and all good things take a while,” she said. “If someone feels like it’s difficult and they aren’t going where they want to, I want them to know it’s going to pan out, you need to just keep at it.”We spoke with her to find out more about her new show and what it takes to make it in the radio industry….bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} How did you end up in the radio industry?I started my radio career on campus radio in 2013 at Voice of Wits while I was studying my psychology degree. That’s where everything began..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} How are you feeling about your new show on Metro FM?I am extremely excited. I mean, it is one of the biggest stations on the continent and to have the wonderful opportunity of sharing the mic with some of the most amazing talent is truly an honour. I share the same seat as TBO Touch, MoFlava, LKG and many more. It’s an incredible vibe!.bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} Tell us a bit more about the show - what is your focus going to be?The show is focused on personal development. It’s about being the best and truest version of yourself and achieving the things you’ve been praying about and manifesting. Being persistent and confident in all that you do and believing in yourself. It’s a reminder that everything you’ve set your eyes on, you can do and you will do; everything is possible. We give you the best and most informative insights on hustling and a bit of a look into what other hustlers around the world are doing. Keeping you updated and motivated. Also, keeping you entertained while you work late, study or get ready for gym. .bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} What place does broadcasting still have in our digital world, in your opinion?Broadcasting in mainstream media is important, especially in our continent where access to the internet is limited and is not affordable. I think along with the internet, they are able to co-exist quite well. For example, radio stations are able to inform you online about a guest they’ll have on the show. You’re then able to set time aside and tune in from anywhere; home, car, work or on the net itself. And if you do happen to miss the show, you’re still able to catch up with a podcast version of the show. I think they work really well together..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} What kind of impact do you hope to make as a broadcaster?The kind of impact I hope to have is for people to realise that everything they want to do is on them; you have full control of your life. You can take yourself anywhere you want to take yourself, if you’re willing to do what it takes to get there. I want people to try, to show up every single day, to be better than they were the last day, to win - and when they are going through hard times, for them to know it’s temporary. And of course, to laugh, have great times and enjoy great music..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} What does it take to make a name in the broadcasting world now?It takes a willingness to have the difficult conversation that some people are shying away from. It takes you understanding that people aren’t going to always like what you have to say sometimes - but that’s just the world in general. You want to share what you think and be honest as possible while maintaining respect. Be willing to listen to things you don’t agree with so that you can have eclectic conversations..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} How do you make sure you connect with your audience?I have honest and meaningful conversations with people. I talk about the things I go through on a day-to-day basis. Sometimes people think because you’re a public personality, you’re some superhuman who doesn’t experience difficult times. But me sharing my difficulties, my highs and lows and them sharing them too, allows us to connect.