Reginald Pillay, Group CEO of Ariston Global. | Source: Supplied.The aim of the Forty under 40 awards is to identify, honour and celebrate a cross-section of the continent’s most influential and accomplished young business leaders under the age of forty.  The nominees are from a wide range of industries and are committed to business growth, professional excellence and community service and have risen to the ranks of their companies or industries at a relatively young age as a result of this. The event was attended by dignitaries from about 16 African countries with about 65 nominees. Recognising young business leadersThe award winners for this year’s event were from South Africa, Niger, Egypt, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Tanzania, Togo, Namibia, Cameron, South Sudan, Swaziland and Morocco. First to accept an award from South Africa was group CEO and founder of Ariston Global, Reginald Pillay.  The business advisor wizard walked away with the Honorary Award for Business Support Services, leaving South African beaming with pride. With close to two decades worth of experience in the business advisory sector, it was a no-brainer that Pillay would come out top. Commenting on winning the award, Pillay said: “I am honoured to have been awarded the Honorary Business Advisor Award. The award recognises the impact Ariston Global has made in the Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) sector, both locally and abroad. It was such an honour to be acknowledged, particularly in front of all my fellow entrepreneurs, who have done exceptionally amazing things in Africa.” According to Pillay, the Ariston Team’s ethos is to make business simple for entrepreneurs. He adds that SMMEs are the largest contributors to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and his contribution is to cater to SMMES to promote sustainability, thus contributing to the economy and keeping the level of unemployment at a minimum.  Insurer boosts small businesses through new partnership30 Mar 2022Among other South African winners was Ngela Ntabiseng Senosha, founder and CEO of Positive Switch Pty (Ltd), who won the Human Resource Development (Female Category) Divide award while CEO of Tharika M Health, Dr Eurika Mogane, walked away with the Entrepreneurship Honorary Award.  Others winners include Mondli Kunene (Mondli Art Projects), Nakeledi Pule Malahlela (Turfloop Football Club), Kwanele Boltina (Riley Auctioneers LTD) and Masonwabe Fuma (Youth Empowerment and Development, Mentorship).  The Forty under 40 event organisers believe that putting the spotlight on these young achievers will not only celebrate them but also build a strong platform for them by giving a voice and opportunities to the next generation of industry pacesetters while building a positive attitude in our youth to strive for excellence at a tender age.