OFM's Real Good Travel Book competition with Hinterland and Hinterland Fuels formally ended on 30 March 2022 with the awarding of the grand prize of R15,000 to the winner. The OFM team surprised 33-year-old Mari le Roux from Hartbeesfontein in the North West at her workplace in Klerksdorp with a huge cheque. Watch the video. She won the prize in the lucky draw after sharing one of her favourite central South African travel experiences online to enter the competition. "We try to explore South Africa rather than travel abroad. My entry was about 'De KrantzHuis' in Niewoudtville in the Northern Cape. It's an amazing place. It is a house built on a cliff. I think it's the only place in South Africa where you feel like you're waking up on clouds. And the sunset is incredible,” Le Roux said shortly after she was announced as winner. She further says that the 'pocket money' will come in handy when she and her loved one departs on their next travel adventure in two weeks. Derik Wolmarans, managing director of Hinterland Fuels, and the sponsor of the competition, also attended the prize giving. “It is important for us to get involved because our customers are here in central South Africa. And it's always nice to give back. We can’t actually believe that the winner came from Klerksdorp. It was a big surprise for us! ” During the campaign, ten lucky listeners were also each rewarded with R1,000 Hinterland vouchers simply for signing up. The Real Good Travel Book, a summary of must-do travel experiences in the Free State, Northern Cape, North West and Vaal Triangle will soon be available digitally for free download. Copies of the book will also be sent to each entrant whose contribution has been placed in the book and copies will also be made available as giveaway items on OFM. Stay tuned to OFM for more chances to win big – there is still a chance to enter the #OFMFanWall competition where R20,000 cash is up for grabs for one lucky winner! For more information, contact az.oc.mfo@gnitekram.