Source: www.unsplash.comWhether it’s motivating each other to keep slogging up the mountain or always being game to try a new restaurant, moms and their daughters are usually the best travelling companions. So with life finally getting back to normal, it’s the perfect time to plan a mother-daughter getaway and make some lasting, magical memories.Need a little inspiration? A culinary crawl in Cape TownAre you and your mom big foodies? Why not plan an entire trip around meals? Cape Town has solidified its status as a major gourmet capital so you can live your holiday one meal at a time.From artisanal food markets to five-star cuisine to delectable wine tasting, you can plan a culinary crawl that will tantalise your taste buds for months. And, First Group’s Riviera Suites in Sea Point is the perfect base as it’s surrounded by the very best that Cape Town has to offer.A rejuvenating spa weekendIf there’s one venue intended for a mother-daughter getaway, it’s the spa – and La Montagne on the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast is a splurge-worthy choice. Upon arriving, turn off your devices (or maybe keep one phone handy to snap those souvenir selfies), slip into a robe and toast with a glass of champagne or a cup of detoxifying tea. Mamma Mia! Mother's Day celebration has stellar lineup22 hours agoIn between stress-melting treatments, savour sipping on pina coladas, eating fresh-caught seafood, sunbathing and stunning ocean views.Taking a hike in the DrakensbergIf you’ve inherited your love of nature from your mom, there’s no better getaway than going to the Drakensberg together. Situated in the picture-perfect foothills of the Southern ‘Berg, Bushman’s Nek has scenery that’s so breathtakingly beautiful, just stepping outside is an experience. Hiking is a must and with trails for every skill level, you won’t have to quarrel over the route being too easy or too challenging. And, rest assured, you and your mom can commune with nature and still have all the creature comforts that will make your trip spectacular.Girls on the greensGolf vacations aren’t just for the guys! For moms and daughters who love the links, the Selborne Golf Estate, Hotel and Spa offers a champion golf course and a host of other facilities that will take you from the putting green to pinot grigio. Nestled in the heart of the lush and tranquil KZN South Coast, you’ll be able to spend quality time on the fairways, enjoy a soothing spa treatment in the afternoons and cherish special chats and fine dining in the evenings – all without leaving the Estate.With Mother’s Day coming up in May, a mom-daughter getaway is a perfect gift. It will give you the opportunity to spend some quality time with each other on an incredible new adventure. So whether you and your mum are seasoned travelling companions or you’re planning your first trip together, spend this special time making memories in a wonderful place.