The NGL Grant is a talent acceleration programme which rewards young professionals in the industry who have shown clear initiative in driving change and innovation. Galante was one of just six recipients invited to join this year’s programme which will focus on “developing a new talent narrative” for the industry in the wake of Covid. Over the next eight months she and her fellow candidates will participate in group calls and discussions with industry  leaders, receive support from the UFI Team, and attend an in-person workshop during the UFI European Conference on 4–6 May in Poznań, Poland. The programme will culminate with a group presentation at the UFI Global Congress in Oman in November 2022. Since joining RX Africa as senior digital marketing executive in 2017, Galante has been responsible for digital content creation and implementation on WTM Africa, Africa Travel Week and Fame Week Africa. On 1 May she was promoted to digital marketing and creative manager, capping a remarkable month for her career. Galante’s passion for events started when she was at university. “I was part of the student body who organised all our student events, on and off campus,” she explained. She went on to do an internship at one of South Africa’s biggest youth radio stations, working on music festivals and activations around the country before moving to a PR agency where she helped plan and organise product launches, red carpet events and activations for some of South Africa’s biggest brands and personalities. After five years with RX Africa, Galante was encouraged to apply for the NGL Grant by her line manager. “He told me that RX Africa would like to nominate me for the UFI NGL programme and asked if I would be interested. I jumped at the opportunity to apply – it is such an amazing programme. It is a once in a lifetime opportunity where I will be able to meet and network with some of the industry’s best.” In her personal statement and video application, Galante highlighted what she loves about the event industry, and the importance of retaining talent post-pandemic. “We need to remind people of why they loved the industry and had the passion in the first place – why they got into the events industry. You can teach skill, but you can’t teach passion,” she said. “Our jobs actually make a difference, and it is empowering to know that. In this industry, we are creating a meeting place where economic growth can take place, where leaders of the world meet and where we can solve important issues facing the world.” Galante revealed she was in complete shock when she found out she had been selected. “It was something I never expected. When I read the email, I just froze and thought that this wasn’t really happening. Being in Africa we often feel overlooked by the rest of the world, so it felt really great to be recognised. I am excited to be a part of this amazing programme and to fly the flag for Africa and RX globally.” As for her future ambitions, Galante said: “I love learning and would like to further my education and complete my master’s in business administration. My passion for events is what drives me and fills my soul, so I hope to continue learning and growing in my role and get the opportunity to work on some of the biggest events around the world.” Reflecting on Galante’s leadership potential, RX Africa’s managing director Carol Weaving said: “Dani can step back and see the big picture and has an entrepreneurial approach to her job, never fearing the new or doing something differently. She approaches her role as an end user and immerses herself into the customer journey ensuring the messaging is easy to understand and succinct. In my opinion this is the winning combination.” For more information on the UFI Next Generation Leadership Award visit the UFI website.