In a world where everyone is a media owner, local direct advertisers have become a lot more selective and careful about their advertising choices. They want to invest their money where they feel they are getting the best possible value. This does not mean that they stop advertising. It simply means that ‘we in the media’ have to become more innovative and embrace a different approach to the way we sell. “Approach each customer with the idea of helping him or her to solve a problem or achieve a goal, not of selling a product or service.” – Brian TracyBy focusing on people, we are able to unlock real human value that goes beyond selling.We understand that our role is not just about selling. It’s more than that. We help our clients to grow their businesses. The moment we expand beyond focusing on the sale to become a trusted advisor, that’s when everyone starts winning.One of the privileges of working on direct radio sales for Algoa FM is that it puts us around a table with successful local entrepreneurs, start-ups, family businesses and retailers. We talk business, growth, strategy, the market, and family, with people who have toiled hard in their businesses, and who are fully invested in their own long-term success. What a privileged space to be in.As trusted advisors, we have to be on top of our media game.Understanding money, knowing the intricacies of the local market and having good business relationships, are some of the key success drivers for local direct sales executives.There’s no doubt in my mind that coming from a place of genuine interest and support, benefits our clients, our consultants and the Algoa FM business. It is in all our interests for the business to do well. The local business sector of our economy is vital to the regional economy as it sustains jobs and attracts additional investment. They welcome all the support they can get as they push through this Covid-19 pandemic. The challenge to all media sales consultants (not only the Algoa FM team) is to get out there and make a positive difference.