Supplied.Audio work from 24 countries was celebrated at the 26 April Storytellers Gala virtual event. The 2022 Radio Award Grand Jury recognised engaging podcasts and audiobooks, masterful dramas, and documentaries, up to the minute news coverage, entertainment and music specials all created by world renowned storytellers. Broadcaster of the YearRTÉ Ireland, the international radio network, was honoured with the Broadcaster of Year Award. Welcoming the award, RTÉ Director General, Dee Forbes said: “While radio is evolving rapidly in a very competitive media landscape, it continues to occupy a special place in the lives of our listeners who come to us, not just for vital news and information, but to plug into the life and culture of this country across arts and entertainment, music and performance, drama, factual documentaries, sport and so much more."“It is important that we continue to satisfy the clear appetite for authentic, diverse and original local content and provide a valuable platform for our talent. Congratulations to all this year's nominees,” added Forbes.Radio Production Company of the YearHarperCollins Publishers UK was honoured with the 2022 Radio Production Company of the Year the Year Award for their exceptional audiobooks. Gold trophy winning work includes Lord of the Rings, Gangsta Granny Strikes Again and Einstein the Penguin. “We are delighted to be recognised with the Production Company of the Year Award. This is a wonderful testament to a landmark year for the HarperCollins Audio team, with standout productions across a wide range of genres. “We’ve been able to work with some of the most talented actors of the day, as well as highlight brand new talent from diverse backgrounds, and bring together incredible casts to make our recordings truly memorable,. says Fionnuala Barrett, Audio Publishing Director, HarperCollins UK.New York Festivals TV & Film Awards 2022 winners annnounced5 hours agoGold winnersCaptivating award-winning entries awarded gold trophies include: Sing! -  Dublin's Gay and Lesbian ChoirOne Day / Lá Dá Raibh - RTE Lyric FM, Mamó, - Sara Keating, read by Ingrid CraigieDocumentary on One - L'Agression (RTÉ Radio 1)2022 Grand Awards Narrative/Documentary Podcast  - Have You Heard George’s Podcast? - BBC Sounds & BBC Radio 5 Live. Best Original Music - U.Me: The Musical - Magnum Opus Broadcasting. Culture & The Arts The Sounds of America - BMP Audio’s Peabody award-winning seriesNew York Festivals Storytellers Gala honoured Sean McManus, chairman of CBS Sports with the 12th annual New York Festivals Lifetime Achievement Award.  Visit the complete 2022 Radio Awards winners’ showcase here