Working in partnership with some of SA’s best colleges and universities to offer employment and learning opportunities to students, the full-time internship programme has been designed to provide a variety of development opportunities through on-the-job experiential learning, self-development and guidance through mentorship. After a six-to-twelve-month evaluation of performance and capability, dentsu SA seeks to retain their successful interns by appointing them into permanent roles based on a suitable job match and opportunity within the region.Koo Govender, CEO of dentsu SA comments: “At dentsu, we pride ourselves on empowering and equipping future leaders within the marketing and advertising industry which is evident in the growth and development of previous year’s interns who currently hold permanent positions within the business.”A key focus at the global advertising agency is attracting top talent at early stages of their careers as well as offering practical and comprehensive skills to develop and strengthen their ability. To date, a total of 113 interns have been onboarded into the programme with an impressive 76% absorption rate. “I was a final year student who was lucky enough to have received an opportunity at dentsu for an internship. I stepped foot into dentsu with little to no experience and six months later I was able to confidently implement campaigns on my own. It is exciting and so rewarding to see an ad on Instagram or Facebook and to know it is there because of you. Dentsu has an incredible internship programme which allows you to take your theoretical knowledge and put it into practice. The programme offers employees the opportunity to build their own brand for themselves and broadens their perspective on the different aspects of marketing," comments Nabielah Adams, former intern and current junior campaign manager.Ivarr Solomon, former intern and current AdOps executive said: “The dentsu internship programme pathed my way for investible success. From my first day, I was surrounded with very knowledgeable and accessible seniors within the business as well as a HR department who became instrumental in promoting skills development and teamwork amongst the group of interns. Equipped with a thirst for new information and determination to make a new start I found the company culture very conducive to growth. I've recently been made permanent and look forward to a prosperous career.”If you have recently graduated from college/ university or studying part-time and are looking to gain experience with an industry leader, please submit your application for the 2022 dentsu Internship Programme.How to applyThe application process has two parts:Application form – which can be found here.Dentsu media challenge – available to download via the application form, the media challenge asks the question: If you were to be a media platform, which one would it be and why?Applications close on Monday, 18 April 2022. For any additional questions regarding the 2022 Internship Programme or the application process, please contact us.