The Rand Show 2022 (13 – 18 April) is bringing 'South Africa's best day out' back with a vengeance. Exhibitors include a wide variety of retailers, performers, food and drink vendors, entertainment exhibits and government departments. One of the key exhibitors is the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP), showcasing the progress it has made in supplying new water sources to Gauteng, as well as presenting the incredible attractions of the "Kingdom in the Sky", Lesotho one of Southern Africa's most sought after travel destinations. The LHWP is a key scheme that aims to address the ongoing water crisis in Gauteng, providing the province with much-needed water for domestic and industrial use, with the welfare of many affected communities hanging in the balance.In addition to the educational aspect of the display, visitors will be able to sample the famous Maluti beer at a daily beer tasting on the stand. This will run from 1pm to 3pm daily. Some lucky visitors will also receive gifts of Basotho hats, face masks and Lesotho brand Makhaleng cosmetic products.Water is a finite resource, and proper management of shared water sources for sustainable economic growth is the LHWP's ultimate goal. Ilembu Mwakalumbwa from the LHWP says: "A model on the stand will help people visualise how water is transferred from Katse to South Africa (The Journey of Water to RSA), which is great to see. "Environmental conservation is the key to water security and is a shared responsibility. Our project aims to make water more accessible to all South Africans, as it can be a vital tool for regional integration."In addition, as a tourist destination, Lesotho is unparalleled in its diverse beauty and one of very few ski resort destinations in Africa. Lesotho has the perfect mix of natural, cultural and historical destinations that are the envy of many other countries. We are bringing visitors to the Rand Show a taste of what they can experience in the Mountain Kingdom, and we are sure they will be captivated by what the country has to offer."The Rand Show is the largest consumer exhibition in Southern Africa. The ultimate family-friendly destination allows South Africans to experience a wide range of exhibitors and attractions. These include the West Rand's biggest food and music festival, hundreds of stalls, children's entertainment, corporate and SMME (small, medium and micro enterprise) exhibitions, fashion, VIP experiences and the truly South African vibe that has become a national institution over the show's years as an established mainstay in Johannesburg culture. Book your tickets for The Rand Show 2022 on Howler now, to discover the beauty of Lesotho, explore one of South Africa’s most valuable water projects or just to enjoy a great family day out. Download the Rand Show App/Guide at https://randshow.beepdsmart.com/card/randshow2022.Rand Show tickets are available online now via Howler.Date: 13–18 April 2022Time: 9am – 7pmVenue: Johannesburg Expo Centre, NasrecAddress: Corner Nasrec and Randshow Roads, JohannesburgTicket prices: Adult – R95.00Children 3 to 12 – R60.00Pensioners – R60.00