Evan Morris joins the team as business analyst and will be responsible for senior guidance on business analysis and solutioning best practices, while providing direct analysis and solution architecture expertise to Realm’s clients. Before joining Realm Digital, Evan worked on various digital projects in a wide variety of contexts, including online and offline retailers, large media organisations, online video streaming, short-term and long-term insurance, and vehicle finance, amongst others. Evan comes with extensive experience in digital solutioning, programme management and business analysis for more than 25 years', dating back to the earliest days of the Internet and eCommerce in South Africa.  "I've been familiar with Realm's work for many years, having engaged with them at different times in my career, and I am really enthusiastic about joining the team. Realm is a true partner, rather than a service provider, and I'm looking forward to helping our partners grow their businesses", says Evan.Imtiyaz Mohamed joins Realm's consulting division as a principal consultant and will oversee the creation and implementation of business strategies focusing on future growth, innovation and technology trends. He is passionate about strategy and innovation, linking it towards value creation for clients and stakeholders. He joins us from one of the Big 4 consulting firms where he worked as a senior strategy consultant focused on helping define company markets, identifying industry trends, and creating strategies for improving performance and revenue with particular focus on future growth. Imtiyaz brings extensive knowledge to his role given his in-depth experience in consulting, strategy, innovation, digital, business development, marketing and education across various industries, most notably financial services and wealth management. “ I am excited to be joining this world class team and adding value to clients from both a consulting and practical implementation point of view ”. Kim Pillay joins the business as marketing manager and will lead the marketing team to drive overall strategy, development of marketing programs across Realm, oversee performance of online campaigns as well as drive all online messaging and engagement thereof to key clients across Realm’s primary social channels, PR offices and website. Prior to her time at Realm Digital, Kim has been involved in various digital projects across the technology industry, both within Africa and across the world (APAC, EU, Americas, AU) having worked at some of the technology world’s powerhouses in digital business transformation. Kim shares, “I enjoy the growth and pace of these industries and recognise that Realm Digital aligns with what excites me, and augments my passion and curiosity for technology in the Marketing arena. My love for data and the analysis thereof will help our team critically draw insights to aid in identifying opportunities and developing solutions”.Our team at Realm Digital is here to help you grow your business, solve problems, unlock value and achieve your user experience vision - we’re excited for the opportunities to come for Realm Digital and are certain our new hires will help us in reaching our business objectives for the year ahead. Our continued focus on hiring the right people has led to expertise in creating innovative solutions where human needs and technology intersect and is the backbone of our 20-year success story. If you can imagine it, we can build it... together.