Source: © alphaspirit 123rfThese dialogue forums form part of the programming of various South African festivals with an interest in animation and take place in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town. The Goethe-Institut and Animation SA have been collaborating over the past three years on the Cav‘ Platform, particularly focusing on the transformation of the South African animation industry. Each dialogue forum is based on the theme and research findings of transformation requirements within the animation industry. “This partnership with Animation South African is one the ways that the Cav’ Platform a project of the Goethe-Institut is contributing to conversations that we hope will yield better income prospects for those involved in the animation industry” says Goethe-Institut Cav’ Platform project manager, Bandile Gumbi. Focus on incubators for transformationThe first Dialogue Forum takes place in Johannesburg on 29 April, at a hybrid event at the Radisson Red and kicks off the series with a focus on incubators as a model for transformation. Titled Innovating in the incubator space through hybrid models, this dialogue considers the current ASA incubator Road to Commercialisation - Broadcast Readiness Incubator, headed up by ASA’s Isabelle Rorke. This dialogue will explore how the ASA incubator has impacted the candidates and how this model can be expanded for greater transformation through entrepreneurial and general skills development with the goal of sustainable job creation. Second Dialogue ForumThe second Dialogue Forum is set to take place the Durban Film Mart and will continue to focus on incubators as a model for industry transformation, but will expand to include the creative clusters which are yielding impressive results in Gauteng. Licensing and merchandising The final Dialogue Forum will take place at the Cape Town international Animation Festival and will introduce licensing and merchandising to the animation community. This is an important piece of the value chain, however very few industry players know much about it. It is a complex industry that has its own challenges and opportunities. By hosting a dialogue on this subject the Cav‘ Platform will be able to discuss two critical areas including, Africanisation of merchandise and addressing the critical shortage of African themed toys and apparel for the youth market. All three Dialogue Forums form part of the greater conversation ASA continues to have within the animation and gaming industry, seeking greater transformation and more opportunities for South African animation and gaming professionals on home soil.The events will be live streamed through the Goethe-Institut face book group and to RSVP for the live event RSVP to Michelle