Meatless FarmPlant-based food brand Meatless Farm has landed in South Africa. Launched in 2016 by Danish Entrepreneur Morten Toft Bech, the meat alternatives company went to market with meat-free fresh mince and burgers in 2018 and since then have grown into a respected brand now available in 25 countries.Source: SuppliedMeatless Farm launches in SA with a fully plant-based product range comprising 'chicken' burgers, 'chicken' nuggets, 'beef' mince and sausages. All products are made using pea protein, Notably, the company doesn't consider itself anti-meat nor completely pro-vegan, but rather aims to inspire 'meat-lessers' and 'Flexitarians' to eat more plant-based, swapping out at least one meal a week for a meat free option. "This choice is not only a sustainable choice, contributing to the planet’s overall wellbeing (on average Meatless Farm products use 90% less land and 70 – 80% less water than their meat counterparts), but also one that is inherently good for overall health and well-being," the company says.Meatless Farm enters South Africa through Saikav Foods and OVI Investment Co, a consortium of food business entrepreneurs with years of experience across the fast, fresh, and dried food industries. Source: SuppliedMorten Toft Bech, founder of Meatless Farm, says: “We’re committed to creating plant-based foods that deliver on taste, texture and nutrition. We understand the flexitarian market is growing in South Africa with more and more consumers considering what they eat, for both health and environmental reasons, and are very pleased to be joining their journey.”On entry to market, Meatless Farm is available at selected Spar and Pick n Pay supermarkets in Johannesburg and Durban with negotiations for further distribution underway. SA's most plant-based friendly fast food chains ranked1 day agoPerdeberg Cellar Saam winesPerdeberg Cellar has launched Saam, a new Fairtrade certified range of ethical wines. Capturing the spirit of ubuntu, Saam means “together” in Afrikaans, defining the qualities that create this new range. The cellar's aim with the launch of Saam as a Fairtrade brand in the local market is to make a positive impact on people’s lives. “With our existing following, we can make a change for the better in a disadvantaged community that is directly connected to the brand. Looking ahead, Perdeberg will provide much needed infrastructure and skills development to empower the community as a society,” says Chantelle Boucher, marketing manager at Perdeberg.A total of 72 workers and 20 families who work at the grape-producing vineyards in South Africa’s Paarl Wine Valley are currently supported through the Fairtrade social premiums generated. Saam Pinotage 2020 tasting notes (R75): Prunes, cherries and ripe berry notes with hints of vanilla oak. The palate is filled with ripe fruit and rich tannins with a long aftertasteSaam Cabernet 2020( R75) tasting notes: Produced in a modern style to ensure early enjoyment. Aromas of blackcurrants, blueberries and mocha undertones are evident on the nose whilst soft smooth tannins create a velvety mouthfeel for a rich, lingering finish.Saam is available at Pick ‘n Pay Liquor.