Image supplied: Zoë ModigaPresenting a special bespoke show titled Ukobonga (Gratitude), the evening is set to be a night to remember, to feel gratitude for life via the universal language of music, moment by moment, beat by beat."Performing at the Bassline Live is always such a treat. These shows are so palpable, spirited and full of joy. I think music lovers always look forward to these shows and it’s a beautiful way for us to connect once more, " Modiga said.What to expect at the 2022 Cotton Festival1 Apr 2022She continued, "We’ve all been through so much and we really just wanted a show that celebrates that we are still here, having passed through it all and been affected in the various ways. It’s important to love into ourselves now as we deal with the aftermath of it all. I'm so excited that I’ll be sharing the stage with my family of world class musicians and sharing the bill with BandaBanda And The Crocodiles." Modiga was born and raised in KwaZulu Natal, South Africa. Drawing from human experiences, identity and storytelling, she creates a distinct sound to communicate a modern, evolving African story without losing its essence.As a lively, transcendent performer with a background in classical and jazz training, she is known to enchant audiences into another world. An authentic, compelling artist challenging the status quo, Modiga is steadily creating an immortal legacy of cultural impact through music, fashion and storytelling.Modiga has collaborated with some of South Africa’s finest musicians including Ladysmith Black Mambazo, Lira, Thandiswa Mazwai, Johnny Clegg, Simphiwe Dana, Abigail Kubeka, Madala Kunene, Louis Maholo, Tshepo Tshola and many more.On 9 July she will be at the Rotterdam North Sea Jazz Festival. SA musician Mimi on the magic of jazzBy Emily Stander 30 Mar 2022Modiga said, "We will be sharing the world stage with the likes of our very own Malcolm Jiyane, Bokani Dyer and Nduduzo Makhathini and other acts such as Robert Glasper, Nile Rodger’s, Erykah Badu, Alicia Keys, Diana Ross to name a few.” “I was very emotional when I saw the official line up, I literally sobbed. It has always been about taking our stories to the world for me, that has always been the dream, the goal and the plan and it’s so beautiful to see it happen in my lifetime where Africa is being represented, as it was, with the likes of Miriam Makeba, Letta Mbulu, Caiphus Semenya, Fela Kuti to name a few on the world stage," Modiga concluded. Doors at The Lyric Theatre at Johannesburg's Gold Reef City open 7pm on 30 April. The show starts at 8pm. The supporting act for the night is BandaBanda And The Crocodiles. Tickets cost between R250 and R400 and are available at Computicket.