Aside from honouring emerging leaders, the 30 Under 30 programme does important work in amplifying the visibility of destination marketing organisations around the world. By being part of the ‘class of 2022’, Adonisi shines a spotlight on the efforts of Cape Town Tourism and the wonders of Cape Town, in a global arena.Sinothando AdonisiCommenting on the accolade, Adonisi says: "This means so much, I can’t really put it into words. It’s amazing getting global recognition and being the second African – let alone South African – to make the ‘class’. It’s extra special as the first African to be honoured was my current line manager at Cape Town Tourism, Roxanne Lombard."I believe that tourism and, specifically, research and data analysis within the tourism industry has the potential to change the social wellbeing of my country. I look forward to developing my skill set and building competitiveness in my work environment, while championing the development of tourism as a key economic development tool."Adonisi has over five years of professional tourism experience and currently focuses on research and data analysis in the tourism sector as part of his role at Cape Town Tourism.Adonisi studied tourism management at Walter Sisulu University, then did a B Tech, which is when he says he fell in love with numbers and data. While studying, he presented a paper to compete to win a trip to China, to play an advisory role in the country’s tourism development. He was one of three chosen candidates and attributes his win to being very competitive. A trait that has stood him in good stead his whole life.He then joined SSL Innovations Pty, focusing on market research and business strategy development across myriad industries. He was snatched up by Cape Town Tourism in 2019 and hasn’t looked back. He says that in his current role, he connects insights with action. His advice to other young people wanting to work in tourism is to find their niche. "You need to find something to fall in love with and specialise in this. Stay true to yourself, and work hard to excel."Bringing cultural changeCape Town Tourism CEO Enver Duminy is exceptionally proud of Adonisi’s accomplishment: "We wish to congratulate Sinothando on this stellar achievement. As a destination marketing organisation, we echo the mission of the Destinations International Foundation’s 30 Under 30 Program to invest in and prepare tomorrow's leaders from diverse backgrounds to bring about real change in the tourism industry.”Adonisi concludes that as an honouree, he is most looking forward to being part of the year-round educational programme, which includes professional development webinars and mentorship. He’s also excited to interact with other honourees from around the world. He hopes to bring his newfound knowledge to his role, to encourage even more people to find their freedom in Cape Town.To watch Adonisi’s application video click here.