Global demand is driven by organisations' need for skilled project management professionals, as well as the availability of specialists to fill such positions. According to the PMI (2017), the need for project management expertise is due to a dramatic increase in the number of jobs requiring project-oriented skills, attrition rates, including professionals retiring from the workforce and the significant uptick in demand for project talent, especially in rapidly developing economies such as China and India.Bond-Barnard further elaborated that according to the most current project management job growth and talent gap 2017-2027 research, project managers are significant contributors to productivity. Project managers are responsible for driving change and innovation in their organisations. To fulfil the rising demand, more talent must be encouraged to enter the industry. One method to solve the talent shortage is through project management certification. Project management certification enhances project skills and certifies project management experience.Dr Taryn Bond-Barnard, senior lecturer at Graduate School of Technology Management, University of PretoriaEnterprises University of Pretoria (Enterprises UP) has presented two popular preparatory courses towards the certification exam (offered by PMSA), the Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM)® and the Project Management Professional (PMP)®, on behalf of the University of Pretoria (UP) for the past six years.The programmes are designed to ensure that you have the distinct knowledge and skills that employers require, that you stand out in the job market, and that you increase your credibility and effectiveness while working on or with project teams.The Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM)®The CAPM® certification is ideal for the person that would like to manage larger projects and gain more responsibility or add project management skills into their current role. It distinguishes you in the job market and enhances your credibility and effectiveness working on — or with — project teams. Because the CAPM® recognises your knowledge of the profession’s preeminent global standard the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBoK®), you’ll stand out to employers and be poised to move ahead in your career.The Project Management Professional (PMP)®The PMP® certification is the world's leading project management certification (PMI, 2022). The PMP® is ideal if you already have some experience leading and directing projects. The PMP® has a reputation of supercharging a project leader’s career across industries and it helps organisations find the talent they need to work smarter and perform better. As of January 2021 a PMP® certification also verifies that you have a good understanding of predictive, agile and hybrid approaches to project management. The PMP® certification is designed by project professionals, for project professionals and validates that the person is highly skilled in:People: Emphasising the soft skills one need to effectively lead a project team in today's changing environment.Process: Reinforcing the technical aspects of successfully managing projects.Business environment: Highlighting the connection between projects and organisational strategy (PMI, 2022).For any questions regarding project management preparatory courses or to obtain more information about Enterprises CAPM and/or PMP Exam Preparation Course offerings, please contact +27 (0)12 434 2500 or Dr Taryn Bond-Barnard at az.ca.pu@dranrab.nyrat  or alternatively  visit www.enterprises.up.ac.za.