Source: www.unsplash.com A study funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, noted that “extensive psychological and medical literature have demonstrated that individuals who are better integrated in their social networks and satisfied in their connections with others, typically have better physical and mental health, and tend to live longer”. Drawing on this, Society Cappuccinos briefed IIE-Vega students to develop a campaign that would re-connect communities. Society Cappuccinos marketing manager, Candice Sessions, said that the IIE-Vega students were the perfect partners to formulate innovative ways to connect. “Young adults are somehow less jaded than many of us who have lived a bit longer!” commented Sessions. “They have found creative solutions for continuing to connect during the pandemic, often using technology to feel less disconnected from their friends. IIE-Vega takes a very solutions-driven approach where students are encouraged to think differently and to come up with creative solutions rather than being overwhelmed by problems or challenges.”Jameson launches platform to help restaurants and bars2 days ago The team of IIE-Vega students comprised of designers Xolani Ndigi, Zahra Khan, Nthatisi Morare and strategists Megan Munro, Cassidy Kretzmann, Mitchell Stacey, Brayden Knoop and Tamiq Houston. They worked on multiple ideas, one of them being a campaign based on love languages. The concept of love languages was created by Gary Chapman in his book The 5 Love Languages, where he describes five styles of expressing and receiving love - words of affirmation, quality time, receiving gifts, acts of service, and physical touch. This is based on the idea that not everyone expresses love in the same way and that people also have different ways they prefer to receive love. The idea is that, when a person’s love language is understood, expressing love for that person can be done in ways that are more meaningful to them.How can brands create emotional resonance with their audiences?By Ryan McFadyen 1 day ago The team noted that, following the pandemic, individuals have been craving social connection. “We wanted our campaign to assist in reconnecting loved ones as well as making new friends. We thought there’s no better way to do that than understand the deep needs of our loved ones. Our core insight for the campaign was that the act of preparing and receiving a cappuccino is a ‘love language’ in itself, making the person you are preparing it for feel loved, respected, cherished and appreciated.” The campaign will initially be driven via Society Cappuccino’s social media channels with the aim being to educate followers on love languages and encourage them to connect with friends and loved ones in the languages that resonate with them.  To join the conversation and see the work of the students, visit Society Cappucinos on Facebook and Instagram.