This is the first of its kind in the country aimed at recognising and empowering proudly South African brands that are owned by the youth. The award ceremony is set to take place on 15 June in Sandton, Johannesburg.According to the World Economic Forum, Africa is expected to be home to one billion youth by 2050. Currently, South Africa alone has a population of 20.6 million youths which is roughly 35.7% of the country. This indicates that the youths are not only a sizeable market but also have the potential to become active players in South Africa’s economy.  The youth in South Africa are the key drivers of job creation and sustainable economic growth necessary to building a better South Africa. Unlike before, today’s youth is no longer fighting a political fight, they are fighting an economic change for generations to come. With so many challenges that they are faced with, they continue to thrive and grow. They are bold, and courageous, create opportunities and challenge the status quo. According to a report by Brand SA, more than half of the South Africans running their own businesses are young people. However, the economic contribution of these youth-owned brands is hardly recognised. Pat on Brands will be shining a light on 16 youth-owned brands in 16 categories namely:Accessories  Agriculture Apparel (fashion brand & clothing Beauty: Personal Care & Skincare Beverages (alcoholic & non-alcoholic) Education (facilities & initiatives) Food Footwear Homeware Media & Creatives NPO & Charities Services (cleaning, marketing, IT, etc.) Technology Travel & Tourism Overall Best Brand For the brand to be recognised for the Top 16 Youth-Owned Brands Awards it must meet the following criteria:It must be South African It must be owned and run by persons between the ages of 18 and 35. The brand must be older than 1 year The brand must have a website with the brand name as its domain. The brand must be active on social media Must be operating in one (or more) of the listed categories.  The entries will be shortlisted by an esteemed panel of judges including the Advertising and Media Association of South Africa board member Mpho Maseko, the voice of marketing Lebo Lion and the township entrepreneur GO-TO guy Bulelani Balabala to name a few.   “We cannot talk about the transformation of the marketing and communications industry and exclude youth-owned brands. Additionally, we can’t talk about addressing high unemployment amongst the youth without mentioning youth-owned brands. They are key in driving the economic transformation agenda. We are thrilled to not only shine a light on the brands but to contribute to the support of local brands.” says Patrick Mahlangu, founder of Pat on Brands and Lerato Agency. The youth plays an active role in the South African economy; however, they are not given enough recognition or spotlight to acknowledge their impact in this economy. The Top 16 Youth-Owned Brand Awards will be bridging that gap by empowering, educating and fostering a brand-led South Africa.For more, go to https://patonbrands.com/top-16/ Nominations for youth-owned brands are now open to the public and will close on Friday, 30 April 2022.