The Unklipped series takes place in a barbershop style setting wherefriends come together to connect and indulge in sharp cuts, fresh cocktails and real, unscripted conversations. Comedian, singer and TV personality, Tats Nkonzo, returns as Season 3’s host, settling into his barber’s chair to bring out the real gold between these friends. Season 1 of Unklipped saw Klipdrift feature some of Mzansi’s best comedians, creatives, and sportsmen, including Goliath and Goliath, the Gwijo Squad, Bokke – Gcobani Bobo and Conrad Jantjes, and more. In Season 2, Unklipped broke the boredom of lockdown with virtual gatherings featuring creators of the Pure Monate Show, SA’s Femme Comedic Pioneers – Celeste Ntuli, Tumi Morake and Coconut Kelz - and some of the country’s top entrepreneurs: Maps Maponyane, Kagiso Lediga and George Avakian. The unscripted, real talk continues in Season 3 with new guests and more dynamic friendships that include music pioneers (MFR Souls and Skwatta Kamp), comedic icons (Marc Lottering and Skhumba Hlope), Bafana legends (Mark Williams, Andre Arendse and Helman Mkhalele), Mzanzi fashionistas (Laduma Ngxokolo, Lesedi Mothoagae and Thesis Lifestyle founders, Galebowe Mahlatsi and Wandile Zondo) and SA’s leading ladies in sports broadcasting (Mpho Letsholonyane, Motshidisi Mohono and Lebo Motsoeli). In Season 3, our friends also get to enjoy signature Klipdrift Premium cocktails while they chat. “We’ve created four signature cocktails that highlight the versatility of our Klipdrift Premium brandy,” says Nadia Anthony, Klipdrift brand manager.  “From the KlipTwist, which tastes like a passion fruit delight; the KlipTonic which is our take on a classic G&T with hints of peach and lemon; the Summer Collins which has hints of strawberry and citrus and The Berrilicious, the name says it! You’ll see that each of our guests have a favourite on the show!” Viewers can head to the Klipdrift website to grab the cocktail recipes. Subscribe to the Klipdrift YouTube channel to make sure you never miss an episode. Viewers are also encouraged to follow #UnklippedS3 and #GoldBetweenFriends on social media to join in the Unklipped convo.