Luvo Bekweni, senior sales manager at Kena Outdoor In recent years, Steers has geared its messaging to the dynamic black youth in South Africa’s cities and townships, and Kena Outdoor has been proud to support this focus. The brand’s decision to work with us, a black-owned media owner, has been pivotal to their dominance in this newly explored market as we have been at the forefront of placing them in areas they had never explored.Understanding the client and their needs is an imperative part of the process of knowing when, where and how to place the brand and we have successfully achieved this with Steers. By targeting the black market in areas such as taxi ranks and bustling townships, we have placed Steers at the heart of the black working class and aspiring entrepreneurs. Our extensive inventory of high-impact sites across the country is what makes this possible.Steers Mojo campaign, Bree Taxi Rank, Johannesburg CBD No fast-food outlet changes and upgrades their menu as often as Steers and while this may present a challenge to other entities, Kena Outdoor has proven to be as dynamic as they are. We have managed to come up with campaigns that match whatever new targets they may have, while maintaining the audience that has already been engaged. Our ideas are as fresh and exciting as their menu.Steers Phanda campaign, M1 South, Johannesburg A notable campaign is their Phanda initiative, which was especially aimed towards the aspiring entrepreneur, and encouraging them to go out and “Phanda” (hustle). Featuring stars such as Oros Mampofu and Natasha Tahane, the campaign was a massive success on television and was further elevated by the OOH element that we provided. What we did was create an outdoor campaign that matched what people already saw on television while still making it a unique outdoor experience. What we always aim to do is to ensure that the messaging stays the same throughout their overall campaign, while making sure that our contribution is valuable to the overall brand.The work Kena Outdoor does for Steers does not go unnoticed. In recent months we have seen other fast-food competitors take on similar outdoor strategies such as adding cut-out elements to their advertising efforts. This is something that we have been doing since the early days of our partnership with Steers, and other brands are only catching on now. We are always ahead of the curve as we make bold moves that set the industry standard higher and higher with each campaign.King Steer Burger campaign, William Nicol, Johannesburg The second quarter of the year is yet another opportunity for us to bring more to the Steers brand as we are soon to unveil their new Mega Ribster burger on our billboards across the country. This massive burger has given us the opportunity to also think massively, and that is exactly what we have planned.Kena Outdoor is not just an outdoor media specialist. We are changemakers who add value to each and every brand we work with, and Steers is such an example. Our relationship with the fast-food giant will continue to soar as we strive for bigger and better each time.