Source: SuppliedThe Hunter’s x Jacquel Culture House collaborative venture is launching several platforms, including a talent search for up-and-coming musicians in their pursuit of success in the industry. The new platform promises to help equip emerging artists with the fundamental skills, resources, and opportunity to get mentored by SA's biggest music stars. Hunter’s x Jacquel Culture House will officially launch on 21 April 2022, and with entries to the talent search opening, aspiring talent can start tuning their instruments, warming up those vocal cords and working on their sales pitch.Supporting SA musicHunter’s has been a vocal supporter of the South African music industry, and its support of both musicians and the industry goes back many years. More recently, at the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, Hunter’s sponsored the Channel O Lockdown House party, which kept South Africans entertained during an extremely uncertain time. In November 2021, Hunter’s was one of the first brands to host a concert aimed at kick-starting live music events after nearly 19 months of restrictions on public gatherings. Following the concert, the brand donated 50% of the ticket value (R100,000) to the Music In Africa Foundation (MIAF), with a mandate to support the South African music sector. Furthermore, Hunter’s continuously partners with several musicians in the industry including Nadia Nakai, Tshego Worldwide and Prince Kaybee. Hunter's supports music in AfricaIssued by Grey Africa 7 Mar 2022The brand has since been drawn to collaborate with the JCH project, spearheaded by Tresor.Unpacking Tresor’s journey to success, it’s clear that many young South African creatives trying to enter the scene, face equally daunting obstacles daily. With Tresor's unwavering commitment to projects that uplift Africa (a proud UN Refugee Agency Ambassador) and Hunter’s having a long-standing track record as a big supporter of the SA music industry, it is the perfect collaboration between two icons of the industry.Through this collaboration, Hunter’s is looking to #RefreshTheRules of the music industry through enabling easier access and support to young musicians, who may not have been able to enter the industry without the resources, assistance or mentorship being provided.Africa Rising Music Conference announces international lineup7 Apr 2022Igniting next generation of African creatives"I am pleased to partner with Hunter’s to bring this epic project, that I hold very dear to my heart, to life. The partnership is centered around igniting the next generation of African creatives. Hunter’s being an outstanding champion of youth music culture is truly fitting to embark on this culture-shifting journey with," expresses Tresor. “I have been working on this project relentlessly for the past few years. The vision for this project and space is to give the youth a voice and platform to express their outstanding gifts freely with an incredible and carefully designed support system.”Anita Mubangizi, marketing manager – Hunter’s Cider, comments, “Embarking on a journey to create new platforms for creative expression in music and entertainment is a non-negotiable task for Hunter’s. We have been looking for the right partner to work with and bring this to life; to get to a point where we can create opportunities in the music space for the youth, and for some, help create sustainable incomes from the industry."