Image supplied: Erika Marais will perform in Die Goeie Pa at The Drama Factory This month brings cabaret, music, drama as well as a brand new play from the award-winning team behind The Unlikely Secret Agent, which premiered at The Drama Factory last year and was nominated for eight Fleur du Cap Theatre Awards. “Kick off your April with some fabulous cabaret with Mad About the Boys which forms part of our first-ever CabaretFest,” said Sue Diepeveen, owner of The Drama Factory. The Drama Factory is hosting a new Afrikaans drama, Die Goeie Pa, created by Fleur du Cap Theatre Award-winning director Paul du Toit and Fleur Du Cap nominated actress Erika Marais. “Then we’ve got some fantastic music with the return of the always popular Clint Cunningham of Clint & Co before we wrap up the month with Nick Payne’s beautiful play, Constellations - a spellbinding exploration of love, science, quantum theory and hope,” said Diepeveen.  The full April programme line-up is: 5 – 10 April: Mad About the Boys Mad About the Boys is an ode to the lives of 20th-century entertainment giants Ivor Novello, Noël Coward and Cole Porter. Think of a certain suave, urban style that reigned in theatre and the movies during the ’20s and ’30s. Think of cigarettes, smoking jackets and cocktails. Think of cynical epigrams and sexy, witty, world-weary songs. Think of Cole Porter, Noël Coward and Ivor Novello – they virtually invented this style. Starring Daniel Anderson, accompanied by Germainne Gamiet, this cabaret entails a series of vignettes around each of the Boys and, of course, the songs that made them immortal. “It is the perfect mix of musical performance and storytelling, and Anderson glides seamlessly between the two modes of entertainment,” said Madeleine Chaput from The Daily Dispatch All the Fleur du Cap Theatre Awards winners!28 Mar 2022 11 and 12 April: Die Goeie Pa A happy family. A good dad. A dark secret.The producers of The Unlikely Secret Agent that won eight Fleur Du Cap nominations are presenting the premier of Die Goieie Pa.  Directed by Fleur Du Cap winner Paul Du Toit, Die Goeie Pa is based on the theatre piece from British playwright Gail Louw, The Good Dad and is following two successful runs in London.  With Fleur Du Cap Award nominated Erika Marais, this production is not to be missed.  Please note that Die Goeie Pa is PG 16 with mature content GBV. Image supplied: A scene from Mad About the Boys 22 and 23 April: From Creedence to Crocker Clint Cunningham, who has carved out an illustrious career a well-known brand and legendary name for himself in the music and entertainment industry through band Clint & Co, returns to The Drama Factory for two nights only.  Join him on a musical rollercoaster ride, performing hits from Creedence to Crocker in his popular one-man show.  From Creedence to Crocker is full of crowd favourites, hilarious stories and one or two unique originals.  28,29 and 30 April: Constellations Marianne, a physicist, and Roland, a beekeeper, meet at a party. They hit it off, and go for a drink. Or perhaps they don’t. They go home together, or maybe they go their separate ways. Perhaps Marianne is engaged to someone else, perhaps Roland is. Maybe she breaks his heart, maybe he breaks hers. Perhaps they come together and their love story can finally take root and grow, or perhaps it will be tragically cut short.  Nick Payne’s beautiful play, Constellations, explores how even the smallest change in our lives can dramatically alter the course we take. It is a spellbinding exploration of love, science, quantum theory, and infinite possibility for heartbreak or for hope. KKNK 2022 Kanna nominees announced2 days ago Constellations opened at the Royal Court’s Jerwood Theatre Upstairs before transferring to the West End, where it won the Evening Standard Award for Best Play and received an Olivier Award nomination for Best Play. Written by Payne, Constellations features Lisa Tredoux and Jock Kleynhan, Directed by Jeff Brooker “The play may fixate on physics, but the chemistry between the two leads is potent enough to move an audience to tears,” said Alexis Soloski from The Guardian.The Drama Factory is situated at 10 Comprop Sq, Henry Vos Close, Asla Business Park, Strand, Western Cape. Parking is available at the venue with accommodation options. To make bookings for the shows, go here