GOING FOR GOLD: Mpact Corrugated was named champion in its category at the 2022 GAPP Awards, held in Johannesburg on March 25. Mpact Marketing Manager: Paper Converting Carla Breytenbach received the awards from Michael Aegenvoort, CEO of Rotocon.The event, hosted by industry magazine The Gapp and Sentient Publishing, highlights excellence in the commercial printing, signage, and packaging sector. This was the first year of its return following a two-year pandemic-related hiatus.Mpact Corrugated claimed the Gold in the category Flexo Graphic Printing– corrugated/flute post-print for work on J.C. Le Roux Nectar Rosé sparkling wine; Silver for the Cape Portrait Red Blend by Durbanville Hills winery; and, Bronze for CBC brewer’s Amber Weiss.Along with the Achiever Award – corrugated/flute post-print for its work on Simonsig wine estate’s Kaapse Vonkel Satin Nectar and Satin Nectar Rosé cap classique wines. In each case, Mpact’s clients had a specific brief with solutions required for top tier brands.The House of J.C. Le RouxThe Nectar Demi-Sec range produced by Distell’s J.C. Le Roux sparkling wine division forms part of its premium tier. The task for its new label fell to Mpact.“As consumers’ desire for sophistication and status grows, J.C. Le Roux has refreshed the Nectar variant packaging to reveal a luxurious look ...,” the company said with the new packaging release in December last year. “[It] has an updated colour palate of soft coral and lavender and features delicate illustrations of South Africa’s most beloved flora and fauna – the king protea and the Cape Sugarbird.”Durbanville HillsAnother Distell division, Durbanville Hills, also commissioned Mpact for its Cape Portrait range “ inspired by the city of Cape Town’s vibrancy”.Its launch media release stated: “Durbanville Hills which overlooks Table Mountain, Table Bay and the cityscape, embraced these very scenic views … in creating this cool climate range of vibrant blended wines. The illustrated artwork takes one on a visual journey throughout Cape Town.”SimonsigIn the case of independent wine producer Simonsig, the occasion for innovative, stand-out packaging coincided with the 50th anniversary of South Africa’s first Cap Classique. The wine, and indeed the category, was founded by Simonsig Kaapse Vonkel. In promoting the new pack, Simonsig described it as “a stellar new look…featuring a shrink-wrapped sleeve, brightly decked with unmistakable icons of the Cape’s floral kingdom.”“It represents a fresh, jovial and vibrant approach that exalts the spirit of Africa Rising and its creative and fearless peoples,” declared the media release, adding that “the drive for quality is a cornerstone of Simonsig’s philosophy and underscores the legacy of Kaapse Vonkel.”Speaking at the gala evening, Sentient Publishing MD Vikesh Roopchand said: “With over 50 judges, the most unique judging system and almost 800 entries, winning at The GAPP Awards is a remarkable achievement.”According to Thys de Jager (Mpact Corrugated Western Cape Industrial Sales Manager) the awards demonstrate how Mpact’s capabilities and dedication allows customer brands to shine, with packaging that speaks to their brand message of quality and sustainability.“As a business-to-business supplier, we live through our customers’ brands,” he says. “It is important that our print quality live up to the expectation of customers. We support our customers’ vision, ensuring that packaging is a natural extension of the brand. We set out to prove that corrugated is not only a compelling sustainability option, but also a value adding marketing tool.”Furthermore, Thys says continuous investment in print technology and skills has allowed Mpact to stay ahead. “Our Innovation Centres include experienced graphic designers who can tailor artwork for optimal flexograpic printing, thereby ensuring the best possible outcome on the outer edge of the capabilities of flexographic technology.“Our integrated approach is that of collaboration between dedicated team members and excellent service providers, technology and consumable suppliers.”