The Three Ships Whisky Millennium 21-Year-Old Single Malt salutes Master Distiller Andy Watts’s unwavering dedication and innovation in whisky-making. The brand’s first 21-year-old single malt will be launched across social media channels with a striking campaign that brings to life the concept of ‘21 revolutions around that sun’ through an exclusive online sale. The limited-edition sale will see only 400 of the 1,202 bottles produced released online at 12 noon on 20 April, and consumers are encouraged to follow the campaign and #MadeExceptionalMadeHere on social media and register at: https://millennium.threeshipswhisky.co.za/ to ensure they don’t miss out on this momentous event.“While the world entered the eve of the 20th century with much trepidation, preparing for the possibility of a computer-induced apocalypse, our Master Distiller, Andy, who sees history as measured in centuries and the future as a source of excitement, hope and rejuvenation, spent some time in the maturation cellar with optimism and foresight, for he knew that in the coming decades, there would be a spectacular whisky,” says marketing manager Meryll Stocks Roos. Watts’s commitment to creating award-winning South African whisky, placing the country at the forefront of international interest, led to the great honour of his induction into Whisky Magazine’s Global Whisky Hall of Fame in 2021. This prestigious award has been bestowed on only the most iconic people in the world of whisky since its inception in 2004. Andy has rightfully taken his place as the 70th inductee, which is a permanent tribute to his lasting contribution to the whisky industry.  With this landmark whisky, we pay tribute to Andy’s vision, bravery, tenacity, and influence as a hero for South African whisky. Andy Watts explains just why the oldest and most complex Three Ships Whisky is ‘exceptional’. For ten years, the single malt stayed in ex-bourbon American oak casks before being re-vatted to 300-litre hogsheads for a further five years. “It matured for the remaining six years in seasoned Oloroso casks and older ex-bourbon American oak. I kept moving it around to ensure the balance between the extracted flavours and oak interaction remained,” says Watts. The whisky is presented in its purest form, unchillfiltered, natural in colour and at a strength of 51.8%. The result is an innovative whisky inside and out – each commemorative box of the Three Ships Whisky Millennium features a hidden UV artwork depicting 21 years of progress and innovation. The secret artwork will only be seen by those lucky enough to get their hands on a limited-edition box. Three Ships Whisky supports responsible drinking. Alcohol not for persons under the age of 18 years. Subscribe to our YouTube channel and click here to view the latest video of the 21-year-old single malt. Follow the conversation using #MadeExceptionalMadeHere on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Process:  This momentous single malt spent its first ten years in ex-bourbon American oak casks and its next five in 300-litre hogsheads. For the last six years, it matured further in seasoned Oloroso casks and aged ex-bourbon American oak. The whisky is presented in its purest form – non-chill filtered, natural in colour, and at a strength of 51.8%. Profile:  Sensory notes and components: Rich, dark amber in colour. Nutmeg, roasted nuts, sherry sweetness, coffee, whole dried coriander, earthy with whiffs of sea breeze saltiness. The mouth is warm with peppery, savoury aromas, and lingering nutmeg and spice. The finish is salty with an impressive softness of spice and delicate sweetness.  Palate: Warm with peppery, savoury aromas, and lingering nutmeg and spice.  Finish: Salty with an impressive softness of spice and delicate sweetness.  Maturation: The liquid rested in ex-bourbon American oak casks for 10 years, then 300-litre hogsheads for five, then Oloroso casks and back to aged ex-bourbon oak.