Source: www.unsplash.com The inaugural Standard Bank Joburg Polo in the Park was hosted in 2019, dazzling guests with fabulous fashion, good music and delectable gourmet meals and beverages.Polo in the Park brings a unique format to the time-honoured sport: because there are only three players aside with an inflatable ball, rather than the hard one used in traditional matches, spectators can get close up to the action and enjoy all the thrills of the matches.There are three Premium VIP Hospitality Marquees to choose from:Steyn City Lounge: A premium lounge offering prime views, gourmet lunch, bespoke décor, an open bar and all the trimmings of the game with tickets retailing R4,500pp. This option offers a luxury lounge seating, a gourmet three-course buffet lunch, butler service, VIP ablution facilities, complimentary parking and more.Absa launches new docuseries16 Mar 2022African Deluxe Lounge: This offers those new to the sport an opportunity to experience the glamour of polo in a relaxed setting with full catering and a complimentary local bar throughout the day – tickets are R3,200pp. This option offers a full complimentary local bar, luxury décor and variety seating, a gourmet three-course buffet lunch, butler service and more. Splendour Lux Lounge: This option is the best way to experience the game in a vibrant environment. From the comfort of their eight-seater lounge, guests are treated to personalised service and outstanding catering and bottle service from their dedicated hostess, while SA’s top DJs provide the vibe. Tickets are priced from R10,000 for four-seater and R20,000 upwards for eight-seater packages. This option includes a dedicated hostess, meaty lunch platters, VIP hospitality tickets, a premium bar package, complimentary parking and more.  “We have created an event that speaks to the high expectations of players and spectators alike. We are especially excited to bring polo fans back together again after the uncontrolled two-year hiatus,” says Sandile Dlamini, founding member of ADC. Hennessy and R!OT revitalise Zoo Lake basketball court14 Mar 2022“Polo is the sport of kings. Any event celebrating this sport must reflect this. To ensure the Polo in the Park upholds its regal upstanding image, we have benchmarked this event against internationally respected polo tournaments. The result is a spectacular occasion marked by glamour and luxury offering dynamic, networking opportunities, classy live entertainment and of course, the excitement of this fast-paced format. All these elements come together to set to create an unforgettable experience for all who attend,” Dlamini concludes.  Polo in the Park happens on 30 April from 11am to 7pm at Steyn City in Johannesburg. Tickets are available here.