Advancements in technology have led to the technique known as “anamorphosis” or “forced perspective”, that when played through the company’s Deep Motion Digital 3D display it creates the illusion of having 3D depth when viewed from certain angles. Lélanie Butler, Innovation and Projects director, says: “We are excited about the new creative opportunities our 3D Deep Motion Digital anamorphic display offers brands and advertisers to push the creative boundaries to connect with consumers. As we roll out additional indoor and roadside 3D displays, we seek dynamic ways to positively impact campaign outcomes through immersive visual experiences.” Source: © JCDecaux JCDecauxA merging of technology with creativityCreativity is what leaves lasting impressions, promotes sharing and drives consumer action. According to a study by Kantar, “Creative quality is the single biggest driver that explains growth on brand exposure, contributing up to 50% to campaign salience”. However, consumers are overwhelmed daily by advertising messages across a range of touchpoints, from when they search for content on social channels, turn on the TV or view video content. In today’s competitive attention economy, brands and advertisers find it challenging to generate ads and content that retains consumers’ attention to deliver memorable brand and product messaging. The question is what is the right balance between entertainment, branding and communication that drives the most value and relevance for consumers. 3D OOH Nike activation celebrates Air Max Day23 Mar 2022Increasing emotional relevanceJCDecaux South Africa believes that its 3D Deep Motion Digital anamorphic displays will increase engagement and emotional relevance by providing consumers with large colourful creative that can be easily captured and shared instantly. Attention-grabbing content and campaigns lead to improved brand recognition, enhanced recall and trust with the consumer, notably affecting advertisers and brands’ bottom line.As it continues  to grow its 3D Deep Motion Digital anamorphic display network, it will collaborate with customers and brands, from the creative design stage all the way to the data-led media strategy, to deliver campaigns that draw consumers’ attention and help generate brand equity and revenue.