Ron ThurstonAt the Nedbank Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) Conference 2022, Ron Thurston, one of the USA’s leading retail gurus, will describe the dynamics of how our brands can shine like beacons of relevance in the retail space.Ron Thurston has spent his life in the retail sector. As a highly accomplished retail leadership executive, board advisor and Amazon bestselling author, Ron has extensive experience in leading the retail teams for some of the USA's most prominent brands. Throughout his career, Ron has travelled relentlessly across the USA to hear what retailers have to say, and inspiring thousands of them along the way.According to Dale Hefer, CEO of the Nedbank IMC, Ron provides a compelling lesson in understanding relevance, which is the virtual conference’s theme for this year. "Ron is undoubtedly the go-to guy when seeking to understand retail in the marketing mix and how we can ensure that we stay relevant. His commitment to listening to what the industry is saying is something that we can learn from. To be relevant, we need to listen first and adapt accordingly," Hefer said.Ron writes in his bestseller, Retail Pride, "The principles of good retail were the same a hundred years ago as they are today. But that doesn’t mean we should not be acutely aware of what is happening around us or how we need to evolve as an industry. We need to evolve along with our customers while still remembering the fundamentals of our business." If that is not a lesson in marketing relevance, then nothing is. Virtual tickets are R1,999 (excluding VAT).Group discounts are available.Book now at imcconference.com. Nedbank IMC 2022 bursaries are available at imcconference.com/imc-bursaries/. About the Nedbank IMCIn 2021 a total of 1,300 delegates from 14 countries around the world watched the live virtual conference. Since its launch in 2019, the Nedbank IMC has become known for its no-sales-pitch, one-stream, one-day format and galaxy of renowned and specialist speakers.Importantly, the conference is committed to presenting the business case for marketing, driven through the determination to secure marketing’s seat at the boardroom table.The Nedbank IMC is presented in association with the Marketing Association of South Africa, with chartered marketers receiving Continuous Professional Development Points for attending.The conference is endorsed by the Interactive Advertising Bureau of South Africa.