Source: www.unsplash.comNow in its eighth year, the Santam Women of the Future Awards are an opportunity to recognise and celebrate the most incredible female entrepreneurs in South Africa.  “I’ve been one of the judges for the Santam Women of the Future Awards for the past eight years, and I absolutely love it because it showcases exactly what South African women are capable of – it’s extraordinary!” says Fairlady editor Suzy Brokensha. “It’s not just about the great ideas – although those are always impressive – it’s also about the determination to succeed against considerable odds that I find so inspiring. To see these talented, brilliant women rewarded for their grit and effort is a huge joy.”  “This year’s awards come at a critical point in our country and economy,” says Truelove editor Makhosazana Zwane-Siguqa. “We’ve been through the shock of a worldwide pandemic; it was a first for our generation and, quite simply, the worst trauma we have had to live through. For women entrepreneurs in particular, it was life-changing. Businesses that have survived the past two years or launched over this period need all the support they can get.”  “This is underscored by the fact that women are more likely to become entrepreneurs, given that there are still fewer opportunities available to them, coupled with their responsibilities as primary caregivers. So we are very excited and honoured to be part of this year’s project with Santam alongside our sister magazine, Fairlady,” Zwane-Siguqa continues.  Santam understands that the first 1,000 days of running a business are the hardest – if you’re still in business by day 1,001, they believe you’re in it for the long haul. “The eight years that we have been part of this initiative are indicative of our commitment to showcasing the depth and breadth of talent of South African female entrepreneurs,’ says Mokaedi Dilotsotlhe, chief marketing officer at Santam. ‘We believe that by highlighting their successes, we will inspire the inception of many more women-led start-ups in our country.” How it worksEntrepreneurs can enter one of three categories:The Santam Woman of the Future title is awarded to an entrepreneur aged 30 or older whose business is more than 1,000 days old and who is well on her way to establishing an extensive enterprise.The Santam Rising Star title is awarded to an entrepreneur between 16 and 30 years old who is still within her first 1,000 days, but whose business, the judges believe, will flourish way beyond them.The Santam Social Entrepreneur title is awarded to an entrepreneur aged 30 or older who is making a real difference in her community. Her business/social enterprise/NPO has survived the first 1,000 days.Winners of 2021 Santam Women of the Future Awards announced18 Oct 2021The prizesR100,000 in cash to the Woman of the Future and R60,000 in cash each to the Rising Star and the Social Entrepreneur from SantamA full-page advertisement in Fairlady or Truelove to promote the business, social enterprise or NPOAn hour mentorship with one of the judgesA one-year supply of beauty partner’s African Extracts Rooibos skincare products worth R7,500A make-up hamper from makeup partner Catrice worth R4,500A GetSmarter online short course worth R14,900Leather accessories from Zemp worth R5,000Business printing from Lithotech worth R5,000A Michael Kors-branded women’s watch worth R4,399A Samsonite StackD Spinner Expandable carry-on (55cm) worth R3,999Three pairs of Baker sunglasses from Execuspecs worth R5,397To nominate an entrepreneur or enter, go here. Entries open on 21 April and close on 20 June.