Leading professional beauty brand, Sorbet, announced an exciting new programme at the launch of the annual Sorbet Beauty Fair and Sorbet Man Grooming Fair on Thursday, 7 April. The new programme, called Sorbet First Thursdays, will run at selected stores on the first Thursday of every month, giving both ladies and gents the opportunity to have glam and grooming treatments after regular business hours. Thulane Toolz HadebeThe launch took place at the Sorbet Salon at Mall of Africa and Sorbet Man Hyde Park, where selected guests were given an exclusive preview of new products and innovations by Candice Thurston, marketing executive of the Sorbet Group and founder of Candi&Co. They were also treated to 30-minute pamper sessions while sipping Bombay Sapphire G&Ts. Promotional partner, Thulani (Toolz) Hadebe added an additional spark by demonstrating a number of grooming must-haves for men at Sorbet Man in Hyde Park. “At Sorbet we pride ourselves on the extent and high quality of our treatment menu and the special service we’re committed to delivering,” says Thurston. “It’s our mission to make sure that every guest who visits one of our salons leaves looking and feeling good from the inside out.” Serina Singh Dermalogica brand consultantThe Beauty Fair and Grooming Fair is back with a bang, introducing new advances in personal care, such as collagen. Also on offer are treatments with featured brands such as Dermalogica, Environ, Exuviance, DMK, Soft Gel Tips, Rapid Lash, MotherKind and Be Bright. And, as always, all Sorbet salons have the highest hygiene protocols in place to ensure the safety of both guests and staff.  “There’s an added extra for our Sorbet family too,” says Thurston. “Guests who spend R500 or more at any one of our 200 stores nationwide during the Beauty Fair and Grooming Fair stand a chance to win Sorbet vouchers for a range of great treatments plus extra spoils up for grabs on all social media platforms."The beauty and grooming fair will be run across all The Sorbet group brands including Sorbet Salons, Sorbet Nailbars, Sorbet Drybars, Sorbet Man and Candi&Co. Follow us on our social media platforms for all of the latest updates on beauty products, treatments and trends – and to hear about the spoils we regularly have on offer.Sorbet Salons: @sorbetgroup | Sorbet Drybar: @sorbetdrybar | Sorbet Man: @sorbetman | Candi&Co.: @candiandcosalon