Source: S Molteno via Wikimedia CommonsDeputy Mayor and Mayoral Committee Member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Alderman Eddie Andrews is encouraging residents to make use of the opportunity and to visit their nearest nature reserve. Read more below:"Go out and appreciate these precious nature reserves this Earth Day, 22 April 2022 at no cost. We would like residents to take some time out on Friday to visit their local nature reserve. The natural beauty and peace one finds at these well-preserved nature reserves is something I would like everyone to experience. So find your most preferred or closest spot and enjoy all that our natural environment has to offer." The City’s nature reserves protect and conserve Cape Town’s natural areas and biodiversity heritage. Most of these reserves conserve unique biodiversity that may only be found in Cape Town. They are an integral part of our Biodiversity Network. "Cape Town is a remarkable city – an urban centre of international importance, right in the middle of one of the world’s biodiversity hotspots," says Alderman Andrews. These reserves offer both recreational and educational activities such as sailing, boating, mountain biking and running trails; hiking; bird watching and picnics spots. Upon visiting these nature reserves, residents will get to enjoy the scenery and outdoor activities they offer as well as the simple joy of walking through the aromatic vegetation and spotting the variety of colourful flowers that attract birds, insects and other small creatures. The City of Cape Town manages nature reserves and conservation areas within each Cape Town district. See below the list of nature reserves residents can visit free of charge this Earth Day, 22 April. The areas in italics are open access and managed by the City of Cape Town. North:• Witzands Aquifer Nature Reserve• Blaauwberg Nature Reserve• Table Bay Nature Reserve (includes Diep River Fynbos Corridor, Zoarvlei Wetlands, Milnerton Racecourse) South:• Zandvlei Estuary Nature Reserve• False Bay Nature Reserve (includes Rondevlei and Zeeköevlei)• Edith Stephens Nature Reserve De Hel Nature AreaMeadowridge CommonDie Oog Conservation AreaLower Silvermine WetlandsGlencairn WetlandRaapenberg Bird SanctuaryRondebosch Common Central:• Durbanville Nature Reserve (includes Uitkamp Wetlands)• Tygerberg Nature Reserve• Bothasig Fynbos Nature Reserve• Bracken Nature Reserve East:• Wolfgat Nature Reserve• Helderberg Nature Reserve (includes Silwerboomkloof)• Harmony Flats Nature Reserve Dick Dent Bird Sanctuary For further information on visiting hours and the locations of each of the reserves, please visit www.capetown.gov.za/naturereserves.