Hoorah's founder and CEO, Shaune JordaanThe deal aims to bring Ramp’s unique analytics and performance marketing capability to Hoorah providing them with a competitive advantage in domestic and international markets. Hoorah employs close to 100 people, and services major brands such as Nestle, Distell, Avon, Justine, ToysRUs, Africa Data Centre, and Sanofi.“Over the past few years, Hoorah has grown quickly to become a full-service, through-the-line agency servicing some of the biggest brands on the continent. This acquisition is a clear acknowledgement of the calibre of work that our team puts out every single day, and will allow us to enhance and scale our offerings even further," says Hoorah Digital's founder and CEO, Shaune Jordaan. Hoorah will continue to operate as an independent subsidiary led by Jordaan, who remains a shareholder. Jordaan is an industry veteran who previously founded Synergize, which was acquired in 2013 by Publicis Group and placed within global agency Saatchi & Saatchi. “We’re very excited to welcome Hoorah to the Ramp family,” comments Daniel Marcus, Ramp’s chief growth officer and co-founder. “This acquisition will be mutually beneficial, enabling both companies to offer clients a suite of data-led and evidence-based creative and performance marketing services.” New senior appointmentsTo further bolster Hoorah's creative offerings, the company has made new senior appointments, including: Clyde Mallon, a former COO at McCann World Group, steps into the role of COO. Creative director Gavin Wood comes on board to run the studio in Cape Town. Marco Russolillo shifts into the executive director role for Nestle, managing 40 brands in their internal digital studio. Former MD of TWO.AM, Anine de Wet has been promoted to director of Client Services.“We’ve put together a leadership team comprised of the best in the industry to navigate us through this exciting new phase in Hoorah’s business journey.  "Hoorah has built its reputation on combining creativity and data to drive business results, and Ramp’s investment will allow us to push this to the next level to deliver more accurate data, better insights, and even greater results for our clients,” Jordaan concludes.