Objekt©South Africa Issue 35 on sale now!The days get shorter. The nights get colder. There is no doubt autumn is here. It is time to make the most of those last evenings on the veranda before winter hits. Embrace the last sundowner days with Objekt©South Africa's Autumn Issue.Take a trip back in time with us, looking at German artist Walter Spiers' influence on Balinese art. We pay tribute to John Hutton and Jorge Zalszupin, two massive influencers in modern furniture design. Let's delve into the latest in sustainability with Mario Cucinella Architects and the World's Advanced Saving Project. Together, they created the first eco-sustainable housing model 3D printed from local raw earth.Greek artist Kostas Lambridis wows both the creatives and the eco-conscious with his first solo show. Held at Carpenters Workshop Gallery in Paris, it reconstructs iconic furniture design using repurposed material. Locally we are very excited to feature the brilliant Tarryn Goldman. The photographer shares her experience and takes us through her latest Kempton Park shoot. The ethereal beauty of this high-concept shoot discreetly comments on the disastrous effects of fast fashion.Stay abreast of the latest luxury lifestyle trends with our new Objekts of Style section. This exciting quarterly portion highlights some of the most indulgent fragrances, accessories and vehicles currently on the market. This edition features Aqua di Parma home fragrances and the latest in men's and women's luxury timepieces. We also take a look at the Gordon Murray Automotive T.33.Objekt©South Africa has vivaciously burst into 2022 with a thirst for the best in international and local talent. We continue to grow our local reach by highlighting talented South Africans in all fields. Our online platform allows us to feature the constantly evolving homegrown creative industry.Promoting our print and online content through social media gives us extensive reach. A previous campaign run for Absa Art Hot Spot achieved over 986,000 impressions across various digital platforms. Another roaring success was our Acqua di Parma native article with a 15% CTR across integrated social channels.Get your hands on the Objekt©South Africa Autumn Issue. Issue 35 is available in select Woolworths, Pick n Pay, Spar and Exclusive Books stores. We also publish a digital edition on Magzter.com, accessible from anywhere. Stay up-to-date on our latest online content by signing up for our newsletter at www.objekt-southafrica.co.za.