If you or your business are still on the fence about submitting work to the 2022 Bookmarks, here are even more reasons to enter. Avoid late penalties Starting your submission early will provide your team with time to select their best works while ensuring you don’t forget to enter. It will also help you avoid paying any late fees when you realise entries close on Monday, 9 May! Showcase success The Bookmark Awards have always been a celebration of digital excellence. By entering the Awards, businesses can display their best works to their peers, benchmarking their innovation and prowess amongst industry heavyweights and newbies alike. Make your mark... In 2022, the Bookmarks have gone bigger and bolder with revised categories that align with the transformation the world – and industry –  is currently undergoing. This is why it’s the perfect opportunity to submit works that are cutting-edge, utilise the newest innovations or have had a real impact on the world. From campaigns built on the foundations of yesteryear to those integrating online and offline and incorporating new tech such as non-fungible tokens (NFTs), innovative and transformative work will be placed under the spotlight this year. And build your brand Over the years, the Bookmarks have helped agencies build on their success and become the behemoths of the industry. And 2022 is no different. The Bookmarks are open to all and we’re excited to see what fledgling agencies can bring to the table. This is your chance to show off your skills alongside the greats while building your brand presence within the market. Additionally, companies are urged to encourage their agencies to submit projects they’ve been working on this past year. Attract business Bookmarks winners are selected against a strict set of criteria and judged by expert panels selected by industry peers. This is why winning a Bookmark is an indication of both success and excellence. Previous Bookmarks winners continue to showcase their awards to prospective clients to help attract business and indicate their excellent standing within the industry. The 2022 Bookmark Awards entries are open until Monday, 9 May at midnight. Click here to enter. For more information on the 2022 Bookmark Awards, visit thebookmarks.co.za. The 2022 Bookmark Awards are proudly supported by DStv Media Sales as its naming rights partner.