In this edition we highlight the critical role transport and logistics play in developing the South African economy and dive into what Minister Patricia de Lille’s Public Works Department is doing to contribute to growth. We explain why The South African Weather Service is at the forefront of combating climate change through their predictions and we celebrate veterinarians for the work they do and we also briefly discuss the new laws around workplace harassment.Read here. Special features include:  We examine the programmes tackling youth unemploymentA trip around southern Africa as we share the top places to visitProf. Kondlo of the Institute for the Study of Legislatures tells us why public participation is importantThe Covid pandemic – is it over yet?In his letter to the country on 1 April – From the Desk of the President – our president celebrated the country’s improved tax revenue which is supporting South Africa’s economic recovery and growth:“Last week, the South African Revenue Service (SARS) announced in its preliminary tax revenue collection outcome that it had collected over R1.5-trillion between April 2021 and March 2022. This a 25% improvement over the previous year and a 15% increase over the last year prior to the COVID pandemic. “Over the same period, SARS also paid out its highest amount in tax refunds since it was established 25 years ago.  “A competent tax revenue collection agency is at the heart of building a capable state.” – President Ramaphosa.His Excellency recently attended the Presidential Imbizo in the Free State where he met with community members who raised their service delivery concerns. President Ramaphosa recently announced the new National Commissioner of Police, General Sehlahle Fannie Masemola, and attended The South African Dubai 2020 Expo National Day where he addressed the celebration held at the Al Wasl Plaza. More good news is that His Excellency officiated at the launch of a locally South African-manufactured bakkie, the Isuzu-D Max, in the Eastern CapeTreasury Deputy Director-General Ismail MomoniatThis bumper edition of PSL celebrates Freedom Day in April with a special reminder of why it is so important in our country’s history – and this would not have been possible without including a feature on Madiba. Our Trailblazer this month is financial crime buster Treasury Deputy Director-General Ismail Momoniat and our Woman in Leadership is 'The Knitting Needle Guerilla', Honourable Thandi Modise, Minister of Defence and Military Veterans.What is happening at Home Affairs? We take a look at the department’s successes under the leadership of Minister Motsoaledi. Our Regional Focus is on the Eastern Cape – looking at the province's attractions, economy and premier; and in Financial Fitness we zoom in on how public debt affects your personal finances and investments. In Other News PSL focuses on gems to visit in southern Africa – and we address a topic which is top of mind – the unemployment situation in the country.Whether you are in the public sector, the private sector, supply chain or an interested individual, PSL has something for you. We hope you enjoy the read.Keep your finger on the pulse! To stay in the loop on all current affairs, check out the latest edition of the Public Sector Leaders publication on Issuu, here. For enquiries, regarding being profiled or showcased in the next edition of the Public Sector Leaders publication, please set up an appointment with our National Project Manager, Emlyn Dunn, here.