Source: © algoa.info agoa.info Lagos, Nigeria. The Africa PR and Communications report will cover all of Africa“We are pleased to confirm we are now expanding our research to cover a continent that holds plenty of promise for the global communications sector,” says BHM founder, Ayeni Adekunle. “Since we launched the Nigeria PR Report on January 29, 2016, we have witnessed the growth of the industry at home and abroad. “We hope the Africa PR and Communications report (APCR) will quickly become the authoritative voice in the industry, providing insights, data, and useful information for those working here, as well as everyone outside looking in,” says Adekunle.  Fastest-growing econominesWith 54 countries and an expected Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of $5.tn in four years, the continent is home to six of the top 10 fastest-growing economies in the world. Africa accounts for around 17% of the world’s population, but only about three percent of global GDP. The implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) is further proof of the continent’s plans for the future, as it has the potential to create a continental free-trade zone with a combined GDP of $3.4tn, according to the African Union (AU). The 2022 APCR will contain verified facts and statistics on the public relations industry, analysis that can guide governments and multinationals, resources and recommendations that assist practitioners in building better careers and business models, designed to enhance and deliver value to all stakeholders.  “PR professionals, now more than ever, have an increased duty to advise clients based on sound data and experience,” says Moliehi Molekoa, a member of the APCR board and the managing director of Magna Carta, a pan-African reputation management consultancy. A key source of data“APCR will be one of the key sources of that data. We are filling a void within the industry, and this report will better equip us as professionals as well as businesses about the African PR landscape. “It will provide valuable insights on how to build, manage and protect reputations with the overall aim of elevating the role the industry plays in brand building,” expands Molekoa.  BHM Group, through this seminal industry-wide report, therefore, seeks to foster an in-depth understanding of the world’s business, tech, commercial and communications landscapes, among others. It will tell Africa’s story by Africans, for Africa and for anyone else hoping to gain a deeper understanding and foothold on the continent and the immense opportunities it offer. This will be the first-ever report that will cater exclusively to the PR and communications industry within the African continent.  The APCR is being compiled in partnership with the Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA), the Chartered Institute of Public Relations (CIPR UK), CIPR International, Africa Communications Week (ACW), Wadds Incorporated, ID Africa, Plaqad Incorporated, and Magna Carta Reputation Management Consultants. Other partners are to be announced.