Loukmaan Adams, Don Vino, Belinda Davids, Emo Adams and Katlego Maboe will all be part of the Mamma Mia! celebration lineupThe event will showcase top South African musicians, talents and artists such as Tracey Lange, Alfred Adriaan, Belinda Davids, Katlego Maboe, Tarryn Lamb, Don Vino Prins, Loukmaan Adams, Emo Adams as well as the Take Note Band taking to the stage. Through everything that we've been through over the last two years, show producer Olivia Gildenhuys felt it's time to “get back to the new normal” and celebrate the ones we love - starting with the women in our lives. Singer and songwriter, Emo Adams, was asked to direct the show and said the Mama Mia! A Mother’s Day Special event is about paying homage to “our moms as well as our wives”.KKNK 2022 Kanna nominees announced5 Apr 2022 “Oh boy! Welcome back! There is no better feeling than putting together a show of such a high calibre and bringing it to the community,” said Adams. He added, “I was told Tracey Lange was going to sing, so I wouldn't miss that for the world. Besides the fact that we get to celebrate the mothers, the line-up is what got me. Sophisticated, variety and a group of genuinely talented people sharing a stage together and we want the people of Cape Town and the Western Cape to come out and celebrate with us.”TV presenter and emcee, Katlego Maboe, is “excited” to celebrate with everyone in attendance, after having taken a break from the spotlight for the past year. “It is a true honour to be called to the stage after what has felt like a lifetime. To be able to share the stage with so many great friends to celebrate our great mothers is even more special as I think to my childhood days and how I would try to make mother's day special with flowers, chocolates and scribbled poems - this is a moment and an opportunity to write another beautiful poem celebrating the strength, courage and enduring love of our mothers, especially at a time such as this. It couldn't be more special to me,” said Maboe.Maboe says Mama Mia! A Mother’s Day Special will also aim to honour the memories of mothers and loved ones who have departed and to also “celebrate living life to the fullest”Our Africa: Merck Foundation launches wellness TV programme22 Apr 2022Joburg-based comedian, Alfred Adriaan, said he couldn’t pass up the opportunity to work amongst talented and celebrated SA artists on Mama Mia! A Mother’s Day Special. “Well I love performing to live audiences and I won't lie, it's an amazing line-up. It's an opportunity for us all to acknowledge our mothers and make them the centre of attention, because they are always focused on us. The best SA has to offer.”Show producer Olivia Gildenhuys says the event will institute strict Covid-19 protocols that will be in place on the day.Guests will have to wear masks at all times and obey all the necessary Covid-19 measures to ensure we are all celebrating safely.The event will take place on 7 May from 8pm to 10.30pm at the Good Hope Christain Centre in Ottery. Tickets range from R220-R300 each and can be purchased here, while direct booking can be accessed here.