Image supplied: A collaborative piece from the Noordhoek Open StudiosMembers of the public can visit local artists in their home studios to not only see them work, but to also purchase pieces. “We are very excited to have 23 artists on board with our Open Studios this year,” said organiser and artist, Aimee Kruger. “This year we have a lovely variety of mixed art mediums from sculpture, pottery, paintings, photography, to bonsais, catering for all tastes!” The 2022 Noordhoek Open Studios event has included an additional day, especially for those moms and dads who would like to come to see the works of art whilst their kids are at school.  Starting on 8 April through to 10 April, each of the home studios will be open from 10am to 4pm each day.  Image supplied: Artwork by Aimee KrugerVisitors are also encouraged to visit the Noordhoek Art Point Gallery, behind the now well-known smartie wall on Noordhoek Main Road, to see the collaborative piece that has been worked on by 13 artists. This piece will be auctioned via a silent auction with all proceeds being donated to MasiSports. “While all of the entry fees are donated to MasiSports, we wanted to do a little something extra this year,” said Kruger. Each artist was asked to add their specific style to the canvas, making it truly one of a kind. The artists who have collaborated on this piece are Karin Kruger, Thomas van Glyswyk, Francoise Viglietti, Alison Faraday, Ingrid Altmann, Isabelle Webb, Andrew Hart, Kruger, Gavin Thomson, Nola Muller, Cherylee Powell, Rebecca Lane and shaneen Wallace from Oclaysions. MasiSports was launched at Ukhanyo Primary School in Masiphumelel in 2017 when the school had only one sport and physical training coach, one netball court and a short sprint track, no school kit or proper equipment and only netball teams played inter-school matches. Image supplied: Artwork by Nola MullerNow, all 2,000 learners have a PT lesson once a week. There are currently 19 coaches for the school’s 19 teams, which play official school matches in a school-branded kit. Netball, cricket, rugby, soccer, cycling, basketball, athletics and chess are thriving. Cricket legend Vince van der Bijl is the driving force behind MasiSports’ work at the school. Over the past five years he has worked closely with Ukhanyo to ensure that its children have improved access to both of these. “Sport and life skills have been a game-changer. MasiSports has enabled the school’s sports dream. The learners who are involved in sport have improved their marks, time-keeping and discipline are enhanced and litter at the school has miraculously disappeared!” said school headmaster Michael Tyhali. Image supplied: Artwork by Francois Viglietti“Last year we were able to donate R20,000 to MasiSports!” said Kruger. “Sport has the ability to change lives for the better, Ukhanyo has seen a remarkable improvement in the learner’s grades, timekeeping and overall self-discipline since starting on the sports programme! If opening our studios can help make a difference in these children’s lives, then we are only too happy to be a part of this special journey for them.” The studios are well signposted and maps can be collected from Noordhoek Art Point or found online. Day pass is R100, weekend pass is R150, or R20 per studio – cash only.