Source: SuppliedThe fundraising campaign kicks off in South African stores on Friday, 29 April. For the next two weeks, 100% of proceeds from Cotton On Foundation product sales and donations online and in-store will be channeled to this cause. The purchase of items such as masks, cans of water and tote bags in Cotton On Group stores provides an easy way for the public to contribute. Unicef and partners will provide approximately 200 families affected, including children with disabilities, with food vouchers, emergency water and hygiene supplies. In addition, Unicef is working with partners on the ground to provide psychosocial support and counselling services for children in the KwaMashu community.Nomzamo Mbatha, actress and Cotton On Foundation ambassador, on a recent visit to KwaMashu in KZN. Source: SuppliedThe Cotton On Foundation has a history of investment in KwaZulu-Natal. Earlier this year, the foundation announced its commitment to rebuilding and upgrading Dr JL Dube High School in KwaMashu to a world-class facility, designed to empower 1,280 learners to reach their full potential. Construction is currently under way. This follows the 2020 overhaul of Ethekwini Primary School in the area, for which the company provides ongoing support. Cotton On Foundation commits to rebuild KwaMashu schoolIssued by Cotton On Foundation 25 Mar 2022Since 2007, in partnership with its team members and customers, the Cotton On Group has raised over R1.3bn through the Cotton On Foundation, to deliver quality education around the globe. Additionally, the retail group recently released its debut Good Report, making public its commitment to do good in all areas of business including sustainability, carbon neutrality, water consumption reduction, responsible sourcing and more. Dozens of TFG stores damaged during KZN floods2 days ago“I recently visited KwaMashu and seeing the destruction caused by the floods was absolutely heart-breaking,” said South African actress and Cotton On Foundation ambassador, Nomzamo Mbatha, who was born in the area. “So many people, who were already struggling, have lost everything including their nearest and dearest. I call on all South Africans to please support this Cotton On Group initiative so that we can channel urgent support to those affected,” she added.Source: Supplied“Children affected by the devastating floods need all the support they can get to recover,” said Christine Muhigana, Unicef South Africa representative. “This campaign with Cotton On will enable Unicef to scale up its response and reach more children with psychosocial support and the protection and health services that they urgently need,” added Muhigana.