Source: www.news24.comMasebe has over the years worked closely and amicably with the media. He was a communicator who understood the media and knew why it was key to maintaining excellent relations with members of the Fourth Estate. In his various roles within the public sector, whether working for the Gauteng Premier office or with former deputy president, Kgalema Motlanthe, Masebe was always available to hear, assist and go the extra mile for journalists as he knew the importance of their work. Sbu Ngalwa, Sanef’s chairperson, said: “Mr. Masebe was an incredible public servant, working closely with the media over the years. He shaped how government communication should be handled when it comes to the media. He was resolute and always ready to fairly engage with journalists. Condolences to his family and colleagues in government. At the time of his passing, Masebe was the acting director-general in the office of the Gauteng Premier, David Makhura. Thabo Masebe was a meticulous public servant with a wealth of knowledge. He was dependable & ethical. Thank you to the Masebe family for allowing him to share his selfless spirit of activism with us & his outstanding contribution in bettering the lives of the people of Gauteng. pic.twitter.com/EqXMlK5XS0— David Makhura (@David_Makhura) April 18, 2022 Joe Makhafola, a close friend, and former colleague said: “Thabo was a fountain of knowledge, a walking archive who reached unimaginable heights. A communicator par excellence. He epitomised a capable and ethical cadre with high moral values. “He was my go-to guy. A close friend, my golf mate, and a confidante. I will miss his calls on my birthday as I share it with his son. His humility, peacefulness, guidance, and friendship will forever be cherished in my heart. Till we meet again. Rest in power.”There are very few Government communicators like Mr Thabo Masebe. He never ever lost his cool even when the media asked tough questions, never deflected, knew that Government was to account to people. His job was a tough one but he did it par excellence! pic.twitter.com/pwnRNYzc4a— Chriselda 'Babes We Ndaba' Lewis (@Chriseldalewis) April 18, 2022