Before cellular telephones and the internet, earlier technology also created boundaries where 'instant communication' was not possible and so freely available. There was less of the urgency that is so common in our modern daily lives. We cannot seem to escape technology in our homes, cars, and wearables; humans are not 'designed' to cope effectively with today's pace. Why do South Africans, in particular, struggle to maintain healthy boundaries?  Most people  naturally try to avoid conflict and many  equate setting boundaries to creating conflict. As South Africans, we love to please, over-commit and struggle to say no, even if it means compromising time spent away from work. We fear losing the respect of colleagues and clients when we are not available 24/7. We also struggle to ask team members for help as there is a stigma that lends itself to a sense of weakness when doing so. In discussion with employees, respondents highlighted some of these frustrations:My employer does not respect my boundaries;I feel more at risk of burning out than before the onset of the pandemic;I feel overwhelmed by the number of messages I have to respond to on various platforms daily;I sense that my company culture does not respect my boundaries;I don't have a good work-life balance. So what do healthy boundaries look lie, and why is it so important? Bruce Talgan, in his Training Mag article, cites workforce burnout and depression alongside increased family needs as some of the top causes that motivate people to leave organisations in the short term. As employer-employee relationships tend to become more transactional due to our post-Covid world's blurred digital boundaries, organisations can be sure that the top talent places a higher value on wellness and are less likely to compromise on their overall wellness.   This is good news for organisations who have invested in a holistic approach to the well-being of their employees – as a priority and a foundational component of the organisation's culture. A formalised focus on wellness is not only an essential part of the employee experience but also a value proposition that could attract and retain like-minded talent. In most cases, management does not nurture an appropriate culture of boundaries which means people cannot place wellness at the centre of their employee experience or personal lives. "Leaders need to create this environment and culture conducive to healthy workplace boundaries," says Francois Kriel. People need to achieve their wellness goals in a post-Covid world.  We look at some practical examples that can be implemented to maintain healthy working boundaries in a hybrid-working space.  Words and communication channels We need to learn how to say no again. Unfortunately, no is a confrontational word. Here are some of the ways you can remove confrontation from using the word no. During the peak of Covid, when most of us were bound to our homes, it was very easy to pick up an email, WhatsApp message or call at any time of the day. It is the most basic form of setting a boundary and one of the most difficult (as mentioned, we are people-pleasers). It is, however, extremely important as it sets limits to when are available or not and does not show weakness.  Team leaders also need to establish what is urgent and important in their daily organisational communication structures. There is a tendency to mark every task as urgent nowadays and to interrupt someone’s time with something that is important, but perhaps not urgent for the organisation. Systems need to define where and what type of communication and notifications are shared amongst employees to promote attention management and clear boundaries on how we respect each other’s focus.   Geographical distance Remember, work is a thing you do and not a place you go to. Many workforces have adapted a hybrid work approach, where employees work from anywhere and visit the office space a couple of days per week. This is a very effective way of ensuring that the organisational culture is not lost, something that many employers were dreading during the hard lock-down periods. Collaborations between employees tend to be more productive, and it is noticed that conflict is avoided due to being 'forced' to spend less time with each other.  Activity-based work environments also enable managing conflict. Pre-Covid, open-office working spaces were seen as trendy and perceived to encourage more effective collaboration amongst employees. However, these setups were somewhat distracting, and many employees struggled to find meaningful quiet time to focus on ‘deep thinking’ tasks. Companies are now setting up various working zones within their office space to ensure employees can work according to their individual needs and focus preferences. Employees can now move between quiet zones, collaboration zones, and social areas. These zones would allow employees to break away to a place that suits them most and their preferred working environments.  Accountability/ConsequencesAccountability is possibly one of the most important aspects when working in an organisational culture that promotes healthy boundaries. Someone needs to take charge, be responsible for a project or task, and be accountable for making sure that these tasks are completed. A culture of accountability must be created in a team, and trust is needed to create boundaries. Consequences need to be put into place when boundaries have not been adhered to.  Francois highly recommends two very insightful books on this specific topic that further guide employers to nurture boundaries: Dare to Lead by Brené Brown and Boudaries by Dr Henry Cloud and Dr John Townsend. We are aware of several companies excelling in the hybrid-working space and would love to know which boundaries you have set to create a thriving and sustainable working environment.