Image supplied: Cindy NorcottAs an entrepreneur, philanthropist, business coach, mentor and motivational speaker, Norcott has many roles in the life she crafted for herself. Writing this book was meant to be the next step in helping people understand that it is essential to believe in yourself.We caught up with Norcott to hear more about her work, writing the book and what the future holds….bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} Tell us a bit about yourself and your work.I wear many hats. I am the CEO of a recruitment agency called Pro Talent, which is 28 years old. I am also the founder/chairperson of the Robin Hood Foundation. I am a motivational speaker, business coach and an author..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} Did you always imagine you would be an author?When I was about 25 years old, I was mentored by an inspiring businessman who told me that ”there is a book in everyone”. This planted a seed in me. I love words. I love books and writing my first book on my business journey felt like a natural next step for me.Time of the Writer Festival announces new curator and Literature Champion28 Mar 2022.bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} How did you end up on your career path?I started my business when I was 23 years old. I had been working for a recruitment agency for two years and I naively decided that I could start my own business. Once I started my business, I realised that I also had a passion for business coaching and motivational speaking and I carved out time to pursue those interests, too. Writing is a side hobby that I enjoy..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} Can you give us some highlights in your career?I think that winning more than 20 business awards has been a big highlight for me, seeing others acknowledge our achievements has been exciting. In 2019, I presented a Ted Talk at TedX Gresham Place, which was a career goal. Having my first book, How to be Unstoppable, reach best-seller status was also another highlight..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} Tell us a bit more about what inspired How Does She Do It? For years, I have had people come up to me at business events or after I have presented a talk, asking me “How do you do it?”. I have always fet that people put others on pedestals and I really don’t believe in that. We need to believe in ourselves and back ourselves.I wanted to share a raw, real vulnerable look behind the scenes to show that nothing is perfect and that I do it imperfectly, but I do it. I wanted to give other women permission to put their dreams into action without expecting perfection..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} What challenges did you face while writing this book? How did you overcome these challenges?I gave myself a very short time period to write this book but while writing, I was also operational in my business and charity and I was delivering speeches so I felt torn between my conflicting priorities and I was exhausted. I got up early every day to write and I felt chained to my desk for two months.TV and radio personality Carol Ofori to launch children's book series25 Mar 2022.bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} What kind of impact are you hoping to make with this book?I am hoping to demystify success. I want women to understand that nobody is killing it and to understand that it is hard for everyone, to accept that nothing is perfect and to get on and make things happen for themselves, believing in themselves and to aim for progress and not perfection and to be honest about the hard, messy journey of managing business, family and life..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} Any advice for young people looking to enter your industry?I advise young people to understand the power of the brands and to be intentional to build positive powerful brands and by minding how they portray themselves on social media.I suggest young people build relationships and create a network for themselves as it helps knowing people and having them know you. I urge them to not be afraid to get their hands dirty and in their first few years to focus on gaining experience rather than focusing on making money..bizicon + br{display:none} h2 .bizicon img{top:10px !important} What does 2022 look like for you?2022 is a busy year filled with many speaking opportunities, marketing my new book and recruitment is incredibly busy. I see 2022 as a year of renewal and a period of growth and re-awakening as everyone emerges from Covid a little scarred and older, but hopefully more resilient, more humble and a lot wiser.You can find How Does She Do It? for sale at shops like Stanleys Stationers, Westville Mall, Moki Store, Thrive Pharmacies, Excess Factory Shop, Scribbles Stationers’, Unison, Willow Boutiques, Spence and Mae, The Tree Spa and Sprigs.