Cindy Diamond, chief revenue officer at  MediamarkTime saving is directly linked to brand successIt’s been said that following the stresses and strains of the last two years, time is now even more valuable than Bitcoin. We know that many of the most successful brands of late have had time saving as their core benefit – just think of Checkers Sixty60. Brands that help us spend more time on the things that matter most are in the greatest position to win. This way of thinking should be embraced not just by brands that are servicing the end consumer, but also by businesses that service the advertising sector. At Mediamark we’re embarking on a digital transformation journey with the goal to save time, by removing unnecessary complexities and streamlining efficiencies that help drive greater purpose and priorities. Shop and go for advertisers Click and mortar has exploded in South Africa. Our e-commerce sector grew by 66% in 2020, with an increasing number of businesses now having an online response to sales.  While the growth rate is expected to slow somewhat, online retail is still projected to top R40bn in 2021 when figures are released. Just as consumers have modified their consumption patterns, so too have the buying habits of our media industry changed. The rules of engagement have shifted radically with an increased need for a hybrid service approach, flexibility, simplicity, and speed. Sales teams and companies that have adapted their approach to mirror this change will, in my view, be best positioned to sustain meaningful relationships. Simplicity is central to speedCompanies are constantly developing strategies to improve the customer experience and shorten the buying cycle through consumer insights, automation and other ‘shop and go’ models.  The increasing number of platforms and channels is overwhelming for marketers who simply wish to access the right audiences at the right time. As media professionals, we know that the audience takes priority ahead of any platform. Fortunately, having an increased focus on the audience's insight and journey provides an in-depth understanding of consumer buying triggers and short circuits the route to market. This allows one to craft less complex and more effective solutions.  Sometimes, the simplest mechanism can often create the most impact. To sum it all up business needs to continue meeting the consumer wherever they are now, simplifying clunky processes through automation, and making complex solutions seem simple. The nett effect of all this is happy staff, happy clients, and more time at the salon.