Source: © MiWay [www.miway.co.za/ MiWay]] Some of the young people from the MiWay MiHeart Leaders in the Making mentorship programme at a recent workshop at the MiWay head office in KosmosdalNthabiseng Moloi, executive head: People & Brand at MiWay, one of South Africa’s insurers, says the partnership will allow MiWay to share good news and highlight its contribution to positive developments and initiatives taking place in the country.  “Ultimately the stories on Good Things Guy celebrate the power and resilience of the human spirit, and our desire to help one another – ideals that resonate with MiWay’s ethos and brand. “Everything we do is about people, whether it’s finding solutions to make clients’ insurance work better for them and enabling them to live their way or coming up with new ways to help young people achieve their potential through our corporate social investment initiatives,” says Moloi. “Like Good Things Guy, we know that everybody faces daily challenges, but that our common humanity holds the key to overcoming them and making the world a better place.”Investing in the youthMiWay plans to kick off its involvement with Good Things Guy by sharing the story of Yolanda Mussana, a former participant of the Leaders in the Making programme and a beneficiary of the MiHeart Bursary programme. The MiHeart Bursary programme aims to help high-potential young people obtain their tertiary education by funding their tuition. In conjunction with the MiHeart Project, MiWay also runs a programme called Leaders in the Making, which identifies eight promising Grade 12 pupils from Moletsane Secondary School in Soweto and Maphutha Secondary School in Thembisa who can benefit from the mentorship and bursary programme.Over the last eight years, MiWay has partnered with six schools and provided amongst other things library refurbishments, computer labs, assistance with PPE requirements, sporting gear and other school projects. Fitting the Good Things Guy mould Brent Lindeque, founder of Good Things Guy, believes that MiWay’s approach to identifying and nurturing individuals with potential is aligned with his organisation’s view that there is a lot of good news that people don’t get to hear, and that it’s powerful. “Good Things Guy exists not only to promote the good things people and businesses are doing, and to show that their actions are bearing fruit. MiWay’s CSI programmes fit this mould exactly, and we look forward to working with them to change the things South Africans pay attention to Moloi says: “When we invest in our youth, we invest in our future and the Leaders in the Making programme is aimed at doing just that. “Alongside mentoring by a member of our management team, we also provide psychological counselling if it’s needed to help guide the students in navigating today’s challenges, higher education, and career choices.“We know how powerful an impact a motivated and skilled individual with the right attitude can have – and MiWay’s CSI initiatives aim to identify and nurture such young people.”