Source: www.unsplash.comNow in its sixth year, the programme offers invaluable access and exposure to experienced professionals from the photographic community and the opportunity to attend key industry events.The educational programme lasts between six to 12 months depending on the mentees’ progress through the process and is designed to cultivate the next generation of photojournalists. By creating a peer-to-peer network for visual storytellers, the programme will work with a cohort of international experts to support this year’s mentees and provide them with the knowledge and inspiration they need to launch their careers. Engage, advocate, inspire and empower - Using photography as a driver of sustainabilityBy Aida Muluneh 26 Jan 2022The programme is open to students and interns residing in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, from 28 March to 29 April. A limited number of spaces will also be available for recommendations from industry professionals. Submissions will be judged by a panel of editors from AFP, Getty Images and Reuters who will decide on the initial 100-strong shortlist of the region’s most promising young storytellers.Once selected, each of the 100 student mentees will be partnered with one of the programme’s expert mentors. Throughout June and July, they will complete three virtual sessions to refine their portfolio and project synopsis – with a particular focus on exploring different editing options and ways to further strengthen narrative skills and develop authorial signatures. Based on these sessions, each mentor will nominate their strongest candidates and a 30-strong group will then be chosen by an independent panel for the following stages of the programme. Asus ProArtist Awards open for South African entries18 Mar 2022The top 30 shortlisted students will be invited to attend Canon’s prestigious workshop, taking place in the run-up to Visa pour l'image in Perpignan, France. Students will be exposed to a mix of lectures and practical sessions hosted by revered photographers including Canon Ambassador Paolo Verzone, who will run a masterclass on lighting techniques for portraiture. On a penultimate day, students will take part in group portfolio review sessions hosted by acclaimed industry experts, including Benoit Baume (Fisheye), Chiara Bardelli Nonino (Vogue Italia) and Fiona Shields (The Guardian), and have the opportunity to present their work and critique their fellow peers in an exclusive knowledge-sharing forum. On the final day, participants will attend the first day of Visa pour l'image and explore all that the festival has to offer. Sony World Photography Awards Open competition winners announced15 Mar 2022The final stage of the process will see five finalists head to Hamburg for Europe’s newest development platform, the Hamburg Portfolio Review. During a three-day trip, the final five will each take part in four individual portfolio reviews, have their work physically exhibited at the show and attend a series of exclusive media appointments with key editors in the industry. Over the following six months, they will receive longer-term mentorships and will be provided with a €2,000 grant and Canon equipment to support their next creative chapter. Apply to be a part of the 2022 Canon Student Development Programme or view the entry criteria here.