Image supplied: Dr Paul Bayliss, art curator at Absa Group The Absa L’Atelier has showcased some of the finest young artists from the 12 African countries where Absa has a presence. “With this year’s theme ‘From start to L’Atelier’, we are calling on our continent’s fearless creators to take a step towards taking their finished artworks to the world by entering the Absa L’Atelier. This competition will once again provide an opportunity for visual artists to respond and make their voices heard. We are committed to putting the basic building blocks in place to ensure that young artists from across the African continent can reimagine their futures and bring their possibilities to life,” says Dr Paul Bayliss, senior specialist art curator at Absa Group. Strauss & Co partners with African Art in Venice Forum8 Apr 2022 Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Absa L’Atelier was re-envisioned in 2021. “The pandemic forced and challenged us to do things differently. In our efforts to lead the charge in being digitally progressive and making sure that artists still get the opportunity to showcase their work, we went entirely digital. For 2022, we have continued to work on improving our digital system and user experience” says Bayliss. The adjudicators select three artists as ambassadors of the competition who will each receive a laptop, data and exposure to intensive virtually hosted mentorship and masterclasses geared towards upskilling and enabling them to take their careers to the next level. Image supplied: Previous winner Nkhensani Rihlampfu's artwork "In addition to the masterclasses and mentoring, the artists will have a collaborative exhibition in the Absa Gallery which will open in November 2023. This will then travel to their respective countries in 2024. They will also have an option to take up a solo exhibition within a five-year period within the Absa Gallery. To us and our partners, the Absa L’Atelier is no longer just about giving artists an amount of money but affording them with the skillset to develop and thrive as artists in a forever changing world,” explains Bayliss. The most deserving South African artist aged 25 to 35 will be eligible for the Absa L’Atelier Gerard Sekoto Award, made possible through the Absa and Sanava’s partnership, with the Embassy of France in South Africa, the French Institute of South Africa (IFAS) and the Alliance Françoise network in South Africa. Sanava president, Dr Avitha Sooful, commends the enduring partnership between Absa and Sanava, aimed at creating a positive impact in the African visual arts scene for years to come. "Our partnership with Absa has grown from strength to strength and it bodes well for the development of African artists whose work will influence the continent’s creative economy, now and in the future.”  LIA entries open with two new competitions4 hours ago“With this year being our 36th year of existence, we hope to double the number of entries from our continent’s young and fearless creators, and we call on all artists to act on their art and become part of the Absa L’Atelier legacy,” concludes Sooful.