Sbosh Mbuzwana and Zubeida Goolam Over the last six years, the three long time friends, Zubeida Goolam, Sibongile (Sbosh) Mbuzwana, and Wayne Flemming have shaped Valiant to adapt to the ever changing needs of its clients and to deliver results that matter. Valiant is an independent, integrated and full-service agency, that puts digital at the centre of customer experience, offering bespoke strategy, content creation and results driven marketing campaigns. Its client portfolio was recently boosted by the appointment to an international client based in Australia, alongside other clients: DSTV, Multichoice, Altron, KWV and more.Goolam and Mbuzwana will take over as managing partners on the foundation they have built, to continue the legacy of being a challenger agency.Goolam, who boasts an impressive repertoire spanning many years with industry heavyweights Ogilvy and M&C Saatchi Abel, will continue in her role as chief creative director - a role she has held since she co-founded the agency in 2016. A current Bookmarks judge and IAB committee member for diversity and inclusion.Mbuzwana, also a highly experienced marketer and sponsorship specialist who has worked across various heavyweight brands such as Castle Lager, Cell C, National Lottery and others, will continue as chief operations officer."Nothing is ever business as usual in the world of marketing, let alone in the digital space. The only constant thing is change, so while we are sad to see one of us leave, we also see this as an opportunity to adapt and forge ahead and create something new – a 100% fully Black owned female agency – that will continue to deliver great work," says Mbuzwana. "Our strategy of being agile and digital-first will continue to take precedence, coupled with prioritising our people and of course our clients. In the true spirit of the agency, inter agency collaborations and 'more digital forward thinking' will continue too," adds Goolam. "The decision to hand over the reins to my partners comes at a time of reinvention of the Valiant journey and my own. In doing so I'm creating space for my co-founders to add their unique flavour to the business, whilst I explore new ventures of my own," concludes Flemming.Valiant offers a full range of digital-first services that deliver on business to business, business to consumer and internal communications requirements. Services include:Consulting on digital-first strategic programmesBespoke experience design, digital activations and development Pure play digital marketing for all creative campaigns, concepts and content Collaboration on integrated marketing communications, for a message delivered effectively beyond the pixelDigital brand design where digital identities are madeBespoke digital content production including video, photography, audio and VR Paid media to help small to medium clients connect with their audiences at the right time and on the right platform.