Blake comes from Belfast, and he has always been determined to put his hometown on the map. He wanted to represent Northern Ireland in something great and he managed to turn £500 into a company which raked in £100m in client revenue. There must be something that this young entrepreneur is doing right, and he’s offering his insights and actionable plan to his clientele, which he hopes to one day include companies on Fortune 500. “I don’t want Fortune 500 companies to just be my clients, I want Vindicta Digital to be the first choice. You know marketing has succeeded when your brand becomes the object or product that you manufacture and offer. In America, people say ‘Kleenex’ when they mean ‘facial tissue’. That’s the highest level of marketing right there, and I want to do the same with Vindicta Digital, so when people think about digital marketing, they think about us,” the young entrepreneur says about his dreams, and provides insight into the workings of his mind. He commands a following of over 70,000 on his social media accounts, and many of them are interested in what Blake has to say. He has successfully crossed over into the area of leadership and mentorship, even at his young age. Being able to take a business and multiply its revenue with strategic and innovative marketing campaigns has helped him make a name for himself. A simple post on LinkedIn about financial literacy was seen by 2.3 million users, many of which applauded his insights and are especially impressed when they find out that he wasn’t born with a silver spoon in his mouth. Blake worked hard to get where he is today, and that continues to inspire people, from businessmen to your average consumer, because if a working-class boy was able to turn into a success story, what’s stopping anyone from finding the same successes? Blake has the answer, and he says that “people don’t fail, it’s that they don’t try. My main successes in life have come from taking massive action. People tend to have little belief in themselves and they wait, they over-analyse, they wait and then they analyse again without ever taking any kind of action to actually achieve what they want out of life and business.”The enterprising entrepreneur, writer, and speaker, wants to share his knowledge with people who want to help themselves, because those are the only people who are worth helping. And he has been putting money where his mouth is instead of being only all talk. During the pandemic, when resources and revenue were scarce, Blake helped businesses with free website audits and consultancy so that they could continue conducting their business. Because, as Blake pointed out, “A world without business, is a world without digital marketing. We need each other and should continue to support each other in a symbiotic relationship.”