Source: SuppliedN3YH says it is committed to doing its part in the sustainable slow fashion revolution. Consumers of the brand can pride themselves in buying and wearing well thought of garments which take into account nature, well-being and future longevity.The slow fashion revolution can be described as the sister of sustainability. Together, these sister-ideas contribute and ensure a fashion industry which is held accountable for unethically produced clothing. The focus is placed on making the entire chain of production as sustainable as possible - from sourcing materials, to manufacturing fabrics, to making the garments. All processes used by outlets must ensure that the fashion industry is productively sustainable.N3YH founder Tanja Merlo explains the philosophy of the brand: “We aim to make sustainability fashionable. "Our strong commitment to sustainable and slow fashion is a core pillar for the N3YH brand as we strive to protect our planet by reducing textile waste, water consumption and CO2 emissions with our mill partners, and in general in all that we do.”Columbia Sportswear Econyl - A fabric made out of marine waste22 Mar 2022Sustainably produced activewear and loungewearThe activewear range consists of leggings, biker shorts, a crop top bra, tank top and jacket. To keep to their sustainability mantra, N3YH produces hair scrunchies from the leftover pieces of fabric. The material is eco-friendly as it is made of upcycled plastic bottles and other everyday waste. N3YH activewear is clean-cut, contemporary pieces which are multi-functional but also fashion forward. The activewear is perfect for the women on-the-go as it can easily be an outfit suitable for a yoga class and a meeting with colleagues. N3YH also has a loungewear range, which consists of a matching pant and top set made from the softest bio-based bamboo fabric which ensures a cooling, smooth and breathable feeling on the skin - giving you the ultimate comfort you deserve after a long day. As with the activewear, the mantra for the loungewear range is to ensure sustainable production, therefore the brand has decided to produce matching baby rompers from the off-cut pieces of material.