DiBiCoo is a cooperation project between biogas technology developed and developing market countries, with the overall objective to support the European biogas/biomethane industry by preparing markets for the export of sustainable biogas/biomethane technologies from Europe to developing and emerging markets. This project has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme under Grant Agreement No 857804.The platform acts as a database of biogas and gasification stakeholders with an additional feature for matchmaking and business application publishing. It enables markets in developing and emerging countries to import sustainable biogas and biomethane technologies from Europe."The digital matchmaking platform of the DiBiCoo projects is an excellent tool to facilitate worldwide networking between biogas technology providers, project developers and investors," says Dominik Rutz, WIP Renewable Energies. Companies can join the platform free of charge by visiting www.biogasplatform.eu, and they can use the unique matchmaking search features to increase their company's visibility. The platform turns project idea into reality by finding the right match in less time. On the platform, you can explore the companies registered according to the company's business need. Companies are able to choose a specific category of biogas and gasification technology or service provider, and the profiles of all companies active in the selected fields will be displayed."Time efforts will be reduced both for technology providers to investigate new markets and for biogas project developers finding the most suitable companies to collaborate with for the execution of their project," says Mieke Decorte, European Biogas Association.Another feature on the platform offers business opportunities. This section is intended to create cooperative connections and realise business opportunities. Stakeholders can post their business needs, project ideas and request looking for various services to build a successful business cooperation."The platform makes it easy to find the right choice in implementing biogas and gasification technology and brings business opportunities for importing and exporting countries," says Wondwossen Bogale, Iceaddis Ethiopia.The final feature is the knowledge base with biogas and gasification related literature sources and fun facts. Industry players can get insights into the biogas sector by reading the selected list of relevant literature sources. The platform offers developed fact sheet summaries, basic elements of the biogas plants, and presents this information in an understandable way.For a clearer understanding of how the platform works, watch this video.