South African agencies, clients, media partners and start-ups are invited to submit their entries via the Effie Awards South Africa website. Acceptance of entries via the portal will close at 12pm on Wednesday, 15 June 2022.This year, campaigns can be entered into over 70 categories across two category groups. Campaign eligibility dates for the Sustained Success Category are 1 February 2019 – 31 January 2022 [36 months] and 1 February 2021 – 31 January 2022 [12 months] for all other categories. Full details on how to enter, including details on the categories and entry requirements can be found on the ‘how to enter’ tab at www.effieawards.co.za. It is recommended that entrants download and familiarise themselves with all the entry documents, categories and requirements prior to initiating the online entry process. “The importance for clients and marketers of measuring the effectiveness and success of marketing and communications campaigns can never be over emphasised. Neither can the recognition attained by finalists and winners of an Effie, considered globally to be the most respected marketing effectiveness award. The first edition of the Effie Awards programme in South Africa underscored the importance our industry and profession place on the critical business metric of effectiveness in marketing, and we’re looking forward to an even bigger and better programme this year,” says Mathe Okaba, CEO Association for Communication and Advertising.Entry deadlines and key dates for the 2022 Effie Awards South Africa:Early Bird: Wednesday, 18 May 2022 at 12pmOn-time: Wednesday, 01 June 2022 at 12pmLast Minute: Wednesday, 15 June 2022 at 12pm Round one of judging will take place over two days from Wednesday, 10 August to Thursday, 11 August and the final round on Wednesday, 24 and Thursday 25 August. The Grand Effie judging session is scheduled to take place on Thursday 29 September.  This year the most effective campaigns entered into the 2022 programme will be announced at the very first Effie Awards Finalists Party on 15 September. Effie Awards South Africa winners will be announced at the Effie Gala to be held in Johannesburg on 27 October.“Results are what matter to clients in terms of business success, and to agencies too, in terms of evidencing their ability to deliver not only against stated business objectives, but to do so effectively and with quantifiable results. As we announce the call for entries and invite agencies and marketers to enter the 2022 Effie Awards, we look forward to celebrating the marketing effectiveness achievements and results of campaigns over the past year,” concludes Okaba.  For more information, visit the Effie Awards South Africa website at www.effieawards.co.za or visit www.acasa.co.za.Follow @EffieSouthAfrica on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and @EffieAwardsSA on Twitter to keep up to date on the latest developments.