Supplied.Creativity in the MetaverseLIA is the first Awards Show to shine a light on creativity in the metaverse. As the physical and digital worlds collide, brands are now moving into a space that is becoming increasingly important. This new competition will celebrate how brands and businesses create opportunities in the digital world of Web 3.0. These would include real time brands or customer experiences and interactions, or the creation of new pathways for commerce with real results and the creation of new communities.Metaverse, digital twins, and the future of the retail experienceBy Biswa Sengupta 5 Apr 2022“We are very excited to see work that creates new infrastructure in the metaverse,” says Barbara Levy, president of LIA. “We are not talking about one-off campaigns, but where there is lasting interaction between consumers and brands or companies,” she explains. She adds: “Putting our ear to the ground, we know that all industries from FMCGs, CPGs, fashion, sports, automotive, health and pharma, tech, entertainment, leisure arts, media and even finance are putting creative muscle behind work in the metaverse. It is no longer exclusive to the gaming industry.”Creativity in PRCreativity in PR has also become increasingly important. It has been used by so many brands to influence opinions positively, build and even repair reputations as well as establish good will for brands and companies.“Over the years, we have seen how PR has evolved. We know that at the heart of every successful PR idea is great storytelling and audience insight based on reading situations and responding appropriately,” says Levy. PR in the metaverse: A virtual world with real opportunities?31 Mar 2022“This new competition will celebrate brands and companies that through great PR ideas have effectively expressed human truths that have touched the audience emotionally,” she adds. Early bird discount on entriesEntries and early bird entries will receive a 25% discount off the standard entry fees until 16 June 2022. “We are offering this discount as a way to further support the industry. “We have always encouraged a diversity of ideas from around the world and this is a way we can encourage representation from every corner of the globe allowing all types of companies, big and small the opportunity to enter. “Through this discount, we know that more work will get greater visibility,” says Levy. LIA won't accept Russian-based entries17 Mar 2022All submitted entries must be finalised by this date to take advantage of the 25% discount. Standard fees will apply after 15 June until the entry system closes on 2 September. As usual, LIA does not charge late fees. All work submitted must be broadcast, published or released with client approval between 1 July 2021 and 31 August 2022.LIA accepts entries from creative companies, brands and anyone who has collaborated in the creative process. Grand LIAEach Jury has the discretion to award a Grand LIA, although it is not mandatory. A Grand LIA can only be awarded to a piece of work that has achieved at least one Gold statue in its category.Additionally, in the sub-category of 'Public Service/Social Responsibility', gold winners across all competitions, except 'Health & Wellness' and 'Pharma & Medical', will be judged against each other by the Integration Jury for a potential 'Public Service/Social Responsibility' Grand LIA.The new 'Health & Wellness Public Service/Social Responsibility' Grand LIA and a 'Pharma & Medical Social Responsibility/ Awareness' Grand LIA will be judged by their respective juries, from the gold winners within those sub-categories.Judging in Las Vegas commences on 29 September and will be completed on 7 October 2022. Winners and Finalists will be announced on 8 November 2022.For more information about how to enter including entry requirements, please go here