Pic: Capfin branded taxisThe taxi industry in South Africa employs around 400,000 people, and accounts for about 75% of the country’s daily commuter trips to work, school, clinics or hospitals. Recognising taxi commuters as a captive audience, and one which reflects the clientele, both existing and potential, Indaba Billboards and Media sought to “connect the dots between commuters and Capfin’s short-term credit services by offering free mobile Wi-Fi access”. “It’s getting harder and harder for brands to connect with audiences, as TV audiences dwindle, and data costs make online media prohibitive for a huge chunk of the population. So we love that we’ve been able to find a way to not only get commuters connected to their loved ones while intransit, but also to offer brands the opportunity to share their brand, their products and services,” says Paseka Molelengoane, co-founder of Indaba Billboards and Media. Molelengoane says the company also loves Capfin’s success story – a short-term credit provider which started with three people in 2010, which has now grown to over a thousand employees. He says, as a business, "we love supporting proudly South African brands, innovating solutions for like-minded companies that seek to serve the communities in which they operate, companies that offer real-time solutions, or products that speak directly to the needs of the community.” Pic: Capfin digital screen at Chris Hani Rd in Pimville, SowetoIndaba Billboards and Media has been strategic in not only targeting high-traffic, high-commuter areas but the company has also taken into consideration the specific routes taxis operate on. “While commuters are on-board, they have free mobile Wi-Fi access and the first thing they see after logging on, is the Capfin proposition. In addition, while they are en-route to their destination, they will also see Capfin’s strategically placed billboards.” This unconventional marketing exercise offers brands and businesses access to their target audience in an immersive experience, researched and tactically implemented by Indaba’s team.