67 Blankets founder Carolyn Steyn and ambassador of France to South Africa, HE Aurélien Lechevallier. | Source: Aurélien Lechevallier via Twitter.The award was bestowed upon Steyn by ambassador of France to South Africa, HE Aurélien Lechevallier, on behalf of French President Emmanuel Macron at the French Residence in Pretoria last Wednesday.  According to the French Embassy to South Africa, this award comes in recognition of her outstanding contribution to the deepening of cultural ties between France and South Africa.  “Our country, its people, art and music have all been regular themes on her various radio programmes, while she has always had a special place for discussions with the French diplomatic network,” the embassy said in a media statement.  Ambassador Lechevallier commented: “This is a special award, to a very close friend of France. Within seconds of speaking to Carolyn Steyn about France, you can sense her undeniable love and passion for our country and its people. This is a very deep connection that we share.” In conversation with multiple global award-winning humanitarian, Dr Shamila RamjawanBy Johannes Masiteng 7 Sep 2021”Prominent figure” in the world of philanthropyCarolyn Steyn is a prominent figure in the worlds of philanthropy, art, music and media in South Africa. With an early career as an actress and decades of experience in the world of radio, Carolyn Steyn has become a household name and voice, with a dedication to various cultural or charitable organisations.  After being challenged by Nelson Mandela’s former assistant to knit 67 blankets and distribute them on Nelson Mandela Day, Carolyn Steyn founded the organisation 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela Day in 2013.  This award-winning initiative continues to distribute thousands of blankets to underprivileged populations in South Africa, in partnership with the Nelson Mandela Foundation. She is also a member of the board of directors of the Johannesburg Philharmonic Orchestra and part of the committee of friends of the French Institute in South Africa.