Carlson will be spearheading the sales and marketing department to help achieve the companies’ ambitious product, research and commercial growth opportunities through our data-first strategy and customer service excellence programmes. Her specialised background and experience will strengthen the businesses sales and marketing growth plans, complementing the renewed leadership to successfully implement diverse research and sales strategies gearing the business to take advantage of various market opportunities. Carlson is an outdoor advertising specialist with over eleven years of experience in media strategy and sales in the advertising industry. She held several sales and media leadership roles; noteworthy is the head of OOH at GroupM & Publicis Media Group. She was responsible for new business development, planning and media strategy for key accounts, servicing over 25 leading local and global consumer brands. Kirsty has done media planning, buying, strategy and account management in approximately 36 African markets. Carlson enjoyed individual industry accolades from Amasa and was recognised for her management skills by the WPP group, where she completed several leadership programmes and played an integral role in the launch of Road as part of the advisory panel to the OMC. While at GroupM, Carlson worked on a number of inclusivity initiatives, positively impacting representation within the outdoor advertising industry. Sebastian Musendo, MD for JCDecaux South Africa, said: "We are delighted Kirsty has joined the team; she is a seasoned leader in media strategy and data-driven campaign management. She has dedicated her career to studying consumer behaviour, turning actionable insights into integrated marketing plans that create more effective and efficient campaigns for a broad range of brands and consumers. She helped some of the world’s largest brands evolve their communication, strategy, and media campaigns that resonate with consumers and deliver on campaign objectives. Kirsty’s drive and performance focus will materially strengthen JCDecaux market position and growth plan to scale the business further.”Carlson is a well-regarded and accomplished media specialist with a proven track record working on big brand accounts within media agencies. We look forward to her contributing to the achievement of JCDecaux’s commercial targets by leveraging our Data Solutions offering to deliver value and results to our customers.