SuppliedThe awards will recognise a winner each month in a different category. The monthly winner will win R5,000. All the monthly winners will be entred into the draw for the grand prize of R25,000. The awards are open to individuals, corporates, NGOs and NPOs.Play Your Part is a nationwide programme created by Brand South Africa to lift the spirit of the nation by inspiring all South Africans to contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing. Aimed at all South Africans, from corporates and individuals, NGOs and government, churches and schools, from the young to the not-so-young, it encourages South Africans to use some of their time, money, skills or goods to contribute to a better future for all.Monthly categoriesThe monthly categories run over nine months: Youth empowerment.Poverty alleviation.Women empowerment.Nation pride.Job creation.Innovation. Social cohesion.Education and the environment.Winners will be exceptional thinkers who have helped the country improve its service to its citizens through innovative programmes, partnerships, policies, and strategies, reflect significant achievements and provide quality examples of sustainable application.Creativity and innovation“Creativity and innovation are very important in trying to change perspectives and trying to change the social circumstances of people," says writer, producer and Play Your Part Awards judge, Firdoze Bulbulia."We know that people who are innovative find solutions because they are creative, and creative thinking leads to lateral thinking. Lateral thinking is multi- layered, complex, and enjoyable. This kind of thinking increases the chance for creatives to find solutions for challenges in the community.” says  Bulbulia. Innovation has been dubbed the "engine of growth and development" globally and for many countries that are working to remain competitive, improving innovation and technology is viewed as a way to positively assess their progress and impact. To achieve sustainable economic growth, however, technological innovation needs to progress at a reasonable and recognisable pace.Brand South Africa is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country’s brand reputation, in order to improve its global competitiveness.Nominations are open. Enter the awards here