Esna Colyn, CEO, i-Bloom Solutions. Source: File photoThe i-Bloom name was birthed within the Imbalie group in the midst of 21 difficult trading months for the beauty industry due to the Covid pandemic. It began initially with the launch of the i-Bloom magazine in September 2020, which focused on offering customers info on skincare, haircare and beauty solutions. This was followed the next month by the establishment of the i-Bloom Beauty and Wellness Academy, an international online educational and training platform to help develop professionals within the beauty and wellness industry. The next step was the launch of the first i-Bloom salon, and the group opened its first i-Bloom by Placecol skin, hair beauty salon at Chartwell Corner, Fourways, in January 2022. The new salon falls under the i-Bloom group’s franchise division, along with the other beauty franchises including Placecol, Dream Nails Beauty and Perfect 10. In addition, the group will continue to operate its products division, which houses the professional skincare brands Placecol, Innoxa and Skinderm, as well its educational division with the i-Bloom Beauty and Wellness Academy. New name, same values“Over the last 40 years, we have built our product lines and beauty salon franchise groups on the foundations of education and excellence, and we look forward to continuing this legacy under our new name,” says Esna Colyn, CEO of i-Bloom Solutions. “Our new i-Bloom identity is aligned with our values which are flourish, teamwork, integrity, beauty and respect. My heart is full of gratitude towards our shareholders, our board, and our exceptional team who had the courage to make bold and strategic long-term business decisions in the interest of all our stakeholders,” says Colyn. #BizTrends2022: Brands doing good is good for businessBy Sinenhlanhla Njapha, Issued by Nivea 24 Jan 2022Colyn adds that she's "exceptionally proud" of every salon owner who fought hard to keep the doors of their beauty salons open during the pandemic. “As the group forges ahead with its great plans for the year ahead, it will be entrenching their theme of the year ‘NextLevel’ across all the divisions, including with ongoing summits to grow business leaders and their teams. This is part of the fully integrated and proven beauty business solution that the group is excited to be implementing to enable the entire group to flourish and bloom, after the severe trading conditions of the last two years.”