Since its inception, Huawei K-Day has been a highlight on the Cape Town live music event calendar and one of the biggest musical events in South Africa. The latest rendition of the concert will be a hybrid event powered by the new Huawei Nova 9.Limited concertgoers will be able to attend the concert at Meerendal Wine Estate on 5 March from 12-6pm, while music fans across the country can experience the event live on Kfm 94.5's YouTube channel.The confirmed line-up of top local artists includes Micasa, Shekhinah, Matthew Mole, Berry, Jimmy Nevis, Good Luck, Lee Cole and Emo Adams.“Kfm is all about music. This year is very special - not only are we supporting the local music industry that was so heavily impacted by the pandemic, but we're able to do so in a beautiful outdoor location that's socially safe and Covid-19 regulation compliant. It's great to once again have Huawei on board for this exceptional music experience that brings the people of the Cape together!," says Stephen Werner, Kfm 94.5 Station Manager.This year, Huawei K-Day is inspired by the Huawei Nova 9. Styled for the ages with its breathtaking design, equipped with a great camera for ground-breaking photography, a large battery that charges up swiftly and cool futuristic features: the Huawei Nova 9 is the perfect match for this flagship event.Mr Jun Sun, General Manager Huawei Consumer Business Group South Africa says, “This partnership beautifully highlights how technology and music connect people. Being able to bring South Africa’s top entertainment acts to our consumers is very important to Huawei. We are very excited for this year’s lineup and look forward to sharing this event with our consumers, live for a limited amount of people and online across South Africa. Stay tuned to Kfm for more details on both Huawei K-Day and the Huawei nova series.”Event tickets are available at kfm.co.za at a cost of R300 per person or R 550 for the Chill Zone. The entire event is free to view online on Kfm 94.5's YouTube channel.Huawei K-Day – inspired by the Huawei Nova 9. Be Inspired. Be Nova!#HuaweiKDay #HuaweiNova9