Adapted from the hit South African series, Unmarried, Single-ish follows the lives of three women in Nairobi – Sintamei, Mariah and Rebecca – as they deal with the challenges that marriage, relationships, and their careers throw at them. It also explores the strong bond of friendship that these women share, knowing that even when the world crumbles around them, they will always have each other. Meet the three ladies at the heart of Single-ish. The cast of Single-ishGathoni Mutua as Sintamei Gathoni Mutua (This Is Life) plays the overachieving, career-focused Sintamei, a brilliant lawyer who seems to have the life that any woman would dream of – she’s on track to making partner in a prestigious law firm and has been happily married for 10 years to the man of her dreams. Or so she thought.  Talking about what drew her to the project, Gathoni says, “Other than the fact that it’s a show about women, Single-ish has this chic yet nostalgic old-school girlfriends vibe that takes the drama a notch higher without feeling like the friendship will fall apart.” Minne Kariuki as Mariah Minne Kariuki (Ma’Empress) plays the sassy Mariah, a woman with a taste for the finer things in life, who uses her looks to get whatever she wants. “She (Mariah) is a modern-day slay queen who pretends to afford a lavish lifestyle and flaunts it all on social media because she wants to keep up with the trends,” Minne says, adding that Single-ish doesn’t shy away from telling it all as it is, capturing the struggles of modern women. Faith Kibathi as Rebecca Faith Kibathi (This Is Life) plays the humble and down-to-earth Rebecca, a housewife and a mother of two who has lived with her high school sweetheart for nine years despite not being officially married. “It’s an honour to get to play Rebecca as she explores motherhood and failures of her relationship,” Faith says. “Single-ish is different because it's very relatable and has a touch of the actual dating experiences in Nairobi. It also shows the beauty of reliable female friendship especially when things get bad.” Single-ish also stars Brian Abajah (Sincerely Daisy), Michael Munyoki (A Grand Little Lie), Lucarelli Onyango (Crime and Justice), Mburu Kimani (Nairobi Half Life), Lenana Kariba (Selina), Dora Nyaboke (Crime and Justice) and Jacky Kaboi (Bait).  Single-ish is produced by Insignia Productions, the studio behind popular shows Changing Times and New Beginnings, with Insignia’s duo Philippe Bresson and Grace Kahaki co-directing alongside Robby Bresson (Simiyu Samurai).  “I think for the first time we are able to depict real life in an unfiltered way. To me this is real film making, when you are able to tell the story as it should be, so even as the viewer watches it, they will be surprised, shocked and will fall in love with how we tell the story. I don't think there's been any other show that has pushed the boundary in terms of women’s issues as we have,” Philippe says.  Single-ish becomes the second Showmax Original series in Kenya after the Kalasha-nominated hit police procedural and legal drama Crime and Justice, and the streamer’s third Original title in the country following the recent launch of the Showmax Original film, Baba Twins. About Showmax Showmax is an internet TV service. What sets Showmax apart is a unique combination of hit African content, first and exclusive international series, premium documentaries, and the best kids’ shows. Showmax Pro adds music, news and live sport from SuperSport. For a single monthly fee, get unlimited access. Start and stop when you want. Stream Showmax using apps for smart TVs, smartphones, tablets, computers, media players and gaming consoles. Manage data consumption using the bandwidth capping feature. No internet? No problem - download shows to smartphones and tablets to watch later offline. Showmax was born in 2015. Showmax and Showmax Pro are available in sub-Saharan Africa. A Showmax diaspora service is also available in selected markets worldwide. Showmax is a part of the MultiChoice Group, Africa’s leading entertainment company. For more information, visit www.showmax.com.