Source: www.unsplash.com“The year 2022 will be extremely busy for public relations specialists, as more sectors than ever before are migrating to remote work. As such, several PR companies will be expected to offer a far broader range of services than in previous years,” says managing director of The Dynaste Communication Firm, Mkhuseli Vangile.According to a recent Muckrack poll, 73% of PR practitioners believe the term ‘public relations’ as it is currently defined, will not adequately reflect the work they will be performing in the future. Staying on top of the newest industry trends is more important than ever in the field of public relations.Here are five PR trends to expect in 2022: Live video PRThe new wave of popularity linked with live video is one of the PR trends that should not be missed in the future. For many firms, live video PR has become one of the most popular strategies to promote their brands and gain public attention. The popularity of newsjacking will be on the riseThe practice of newsjacking will be one of the most popular trends in public relations this year. Newsjacking involves taking a piece of news and creating a new interpretation that aims to highlight or promote your brand. This is a trend that businesses should keep an eye on if they want to raise brand awareness. TikTok will continue to be the most popular appThe Covid-19 pandemic has compelled half of the world's population to use social media. As a result, some public relations experts are using TikTok as part of their public relations strategies. This year, several public relations agencies will target campaigns using the social media app to increase brand exposure and engagement. Artificial Intelligence in PRThis has to be one of the emerging trends that many PR agencies will follow. Artificial intelligence (AI) will enable businesses to produce better results more quickly. Another method AI will be employed in the PR industry is to create a new virtual environment and assist businesses in developing new brand strategies. Virtual eventsPhysical events have been replaced by virtual ones as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Fortunately, the PR industry handled the unprecedented change with ease and has never looked back. Many PR businesses provided a seamless platform for their clients to connect even when no physical events were held. This is also one of the trends that several PR firms will follow in order to keep their businesses functioning.“As the PR landscape is continuously changing, it is crucial to stay informed about what is going on in the industry. Keeping up with the current trends can help you create impeccable strategies and manage your business more efficiently,” concludes Vangile.