Jarred Baker, Unity Generation CEO and founder.The mobile app is “dedicated to making a difference” and allows consumers, corporations and NGOs to raise awareness on certain issues, reach and interact with a community of like-minded individuals and activists, and find solutions to some of the biggest challenges facing South Africans. The Unity Generation mobile application also features an in-app marketplace, where proceeds generated are donated to organisations that support the causes our community are passionate about.  The changing CSI landscape: The importance of flexibility and impact21 Dec 2021Unity Generation co-founder and marketing director Steven McEwen explains how the platform works: “The premise of the app is simple. Through the various user accounts, you can sign up, stay updated and connect with other members to address some of the most prevalent issues affecting our communities and country.  “Users can stay updated and connected with world issues by scrolling the app’s community section and connecting with individuals, businesses and NGOs across the country, and eventually the world.” Encouraging positive changeThe Unity Generation platform is a place where consumers and corporations can join a community to promote positive change, acting as a middleman to facilitate transactions in the marketplace.  The proceeds from the marketplace feature “will help rebuild certain communities that have been affected by either natural or man-made events, including community relief in times of crisis, for example, the riots and looting in KwaZulu-Natal,” founder and CEO Jarred Baker said. From social activism to politics: How young people are standing up for their communities8 Dec 2021The majority of proceeds from the app transaction fees will be used to fund user-generated solutions on the Unity Generation platform, while a small percentage will be contributed towards app and company running costs. There are different user accounts for consumers, corporations and NGOs to sign up to, each offering different features to help the end-user effectively contribute towards social change. “Through these unique features, we hope Unity Generation will become the preferred app for organising local community activations or demonstrations,” McEwen concluded.