Source: AmazonThe high-tech store will carry a selection of women’s and men’s apparel, shoes and accessories, with a personalised in-store shopping experience that's "built to inspire", states Amazon. Using the Amazon Shopping app, customers will be able to send items to a fitting room, where they can use a touchscreen to browse more options, rate items, and request more sizes or styles that are delivered directly to their room within minutes. Here's more of what can be expected.Personalised product discoveryWhile browsing in store, shoppers can use the Amazon Shopping app to scan an item’s QR code to see sizes, colours, overall customer ratings, and additional product details. With the tap of a button, they can add the item to a fitting room or, if they don’t need to try it on, send it directly to the pickup counter. Amazon Style offers more selection than a traditional store of its size – more than double the number of styles – without requiring customers to sift through racks to find the right colour, size and fit. Instead, Amazon Style features display items, in an effort to bring more looks and less clutter to in-store shopping.Source: AmazonThe store is built around personalisation. Machine learning algorithms produce tailored, real-time recommendations for each customer as they shop. As customers browse the store and scan items that catch their eye, Amazon can recommend picks just for them. For a more tailored experience, customers can share information like their style, fit and other preferences to receive more refined recommendations. SOUTH AFRICAHyper-personalisation in retail. Are we there yet?By Rob Noble 9 Jul 2021Reimagining the fitting roomAmazon Style turns the fitting room into a personalised space where customers can continue to shop a seemingly endless closet of styles. When a shopper enters their fitting room, they will find the items they requested while browsing the store, plus additional options chosen based on their preferences.Source: AmazonCustomers can continue shopping from their fitting room without having to leave. Using the touchscreen, they can rate items to get new picks in real time and request more styles and sizes to be delivered to their fitting room closet in just minutes. This fast delivery is made possible by Amazon Style’s on-site operations, with advanced technologies and processes used in Amazon fulfillment centres.With Amazon’s vast fulfillment centre network, selection at Amazon Style will be frequently updated so customers can discover new items each time they visit. GLOBALAI shop assistants: Get ready for a world where you can't tell humans and chatbots apartBy Shweta Singh 7 Jan 2022Omnichannel approachAmazon said its physical fashion store offers a wide selection of fashion, the convenience of seeing and trying on items, and the same prices found on Amazon.com. It's aimed to make it easy to shop in the following ways:• In addition to Amazon Style’s selection of items available for in-store purchase, customers can easily find and shop more styles online.• Items scanned at Amazon Style are conveniently saved in the Amazon Shopping app, making it easy to revisit and purchase at a later time or easily find more items online from the new brands discovered in the store.• Customers can shop millions of apparel items on Amazon.com, request delivery to Amazon Style, and try on items in a fitting room. If an item isn't perfect, customers can return it in store and we'll take care of the rest.• In-store prices will be the same as on Amazon.com. Customers can also view deals in store that match their preferences right in the Amazon Shopping app.The first physical Amazon Style fashion store is set to open in the Los Angeles suburb of Glendale later this year.