Source: © efks 123rfThe report compares various brands in the sports industry and their sponsorship deals with athletes and sports organisations. It further analyses various social media engagements created for these brands and then quantifies the overall exposure into equivalent advertising value.Nike Through its 16,236 partners the brand is streaks ahead of its nearest rival.Adidas Despite racking up $343m worth of advertising value with 9,181 partnerships, the German brands does not come anywhere near Nike.Emirates While not a traditional sporting brand like Nike and Adidas, airline company is a familiar sight in sporting events. The Dubai-based company produced $220m worth of ad value on social media through their 2,269 sporting partnerships.Santander The Spanish financial company relies hugely on sports to advertise themselves. They produced $187m value worth of exposure in social media engagements through their 1,173 partners. Red Bull The energy drink is on the fifth spot of the list with $162m in ad value on social media. At 4,611, Red Bull’s count of partners is significantly higher than Emirates and Santander.Puma The German sportswear brand is a popular sports brand, and it might surprise some to see them this low on the list. In fact, according to the report, Puma has the highest number of commercial partnerships in sports behind Nike and Adidas – at 4,961. However, the company generated only $150m in social media ad value.State Farm The US-based insurance group has 978 sporting partnerships which helped it make $148m in ad value on various platforms. State Farm has a number of high-value partnerships across all major US sports.Monster Energy The energy-drink brand, currently purchased by the Coca-Cola Company, has 3,023 partnerships in the sports industry. It benefitted with $143m ad value through its partnerships.Dream 11 The Indian-gambling company is an interesting case. It has only 167 commercial partnerships, but it was helped by $112m worth of promotion on social media. Heineken The Netherlands-based beverage brand is in the last spot with $109m in ad value on social media through its 1,231 partners.