IMC 2021 Jon Youshaei, product marketing manager, InstagramEach year the Nedbank IMC raises the bar in terms of excellence, and 2021 was no exception. With 1,300 delegates from fourteen countries around the world watching the live virtual conference, the Nedbank IMC was not only acclaimed as a flawless event and highlight for the marketing industry, but also a necessary platform for marketing in Africa today.IMC 2021, Mike Brown, chief executive of Nedbank Group Limited and Nedbank Limited in conversation with Khensani Nobanda, Group Executive Marketing and Corporate Affairs, Nedbank and Preetesh Sewraj, CEO Loeries.This year, delegates can expect a hard-hitting, straight-talking event ignited by a host of international and local marketing trail-blazers. CEO of the Nedbank IMC, Dale Hefer says that last year’s speakers illuminated the need for marketing to be real and in-touch with its customers. “Today’s customers are a blend of informed, street-smart and critical. They know what they want. Are marketers keeping up? On 29 July this year we plan on unpacking and interrogating the relevance of marketing.”Dale Hefer, CEO IMC on screen at IMC 2021Since its launch in 2019, the Nedbank IMC has become known for its no sales-pitch, one stream, one day format and galaxy of renowned and specialist speakers. Importantly, the conference is committed to presenting the business case for marketing, driven through the determination to secure marketing’s seat at the boardroom table. Group executive for Marketing and Corporate Affairs at Nedbank, Khensani Nobanda says: “As Africa’s foremost marketing conference, the Nedbank IMC is determined to further the best interests of marketing in South Africa and beyond.”The Nedbank IMC is presented in association with the Marketing Association of South Africa (Masa), with chartered marketers receiving CPD (Continuous Professional Development Points) for attending. The conference is endorsed by the IAB SA.Virtual tickets at R1,999.00 (excl. VAT).Group discounts are available.Book now at http://www.imcconference.com.Nedbank IMC 2022 bursaries are available at https://imcconference.com/imc-bursaries/.