Lélanie ButlerLélanie held the role of sales and marketing director: South Africa, which she assumed in April 2020, during a turbulent and challenging period in the outdoor advertising industry, which was adversely impacted by the pandemic. She addressed diverse business needs by implementing a range of projects to mitigate the challenges the pandemic posed on the outdoor advertising industry. Her key priorities were customer partnerships, launching our local programmatic offering and de-risking investment in the category through our OOH propriety ‘Mobility Report’, which shared the impact on mobility and traffic at different restrictions levels. Further to this, Lélanie led a range of the companies’ data by design activities and the launch of ‘Data Solutions’ to the market. Lélanie’s new role will focus on managing special projects, innovation, and bespoke service offerings, heading up a dedicated special project and innovation team. Her new strategic role will focus on commercialising creative projects and introducing new solutions to address various brand and customer needs. Lélanie and her team will contribute to the continual growth and service differentiation of JCDecaux South Africa in the market, helping our clients realise the full potential of OOH advertising. Lélanie is an advertising and media specialist with over 20 years of experience, including print, digital and OOH, working in a range of management and leadership roles. Her vast media experience and passion for Out of Home advertising led to the launch of the JCDecaux BLUE Creative division in 2016, which brought many first to market innovations for diverse brands in the OOH space. She worked on several high profile and award-winning campaigns, such as the Survivor SA contestant activation, which saw contestants compete on a billboard to secure a place on the show, or the world-class national activation for the Standard Bank – #howaboutnow national campaign, which involved the illumination of eight iconic landmarks sites in the blue standard bank colours with the tagline #HowAboutNow, to mention a few.      JCDecaux South sets the market standard in out-of-home advertising, led by rich consumer insights, service excellence and innovation. The business is focused on growing our capabilities and talent. We look forward to Lélanie and her team’s contribution to achieving the business commercial and creative targets.