From left to right: Johan Taljaard (Eduvos lecturer), Minette du Plessis (Vectra), Elna Lombard (Eduvos Pretoria Campus general manager),  Phillip Buys, and Piya Botha (Vectra)At the end of 2021, Pretoria Campus manager, Elna Lombard received an email from a local individual with a sincere and heartfelt request for Phillip Buys. Some of you may recognise the name, as Phillip is no stranger to the spotlight. He was featured in a national newspaper some time ago for his work ethic. He works full time, Mondays to Fridays, then on weekends and public holidays, he polishes cars to help finance his studies.  Recently, in Brooklyn Mall, a young boy collapsed due to a seizure, and he had suffered a traumatic head injury. Phillip Buys happened to be in the right place at the right time and without hesitation rushed to the young boy and immediately started with first aid, which many feel had helped save the boy's life. Phillip was identified as “hero of the day” on various social media groups and in the most modest way imaginable, he refused to take credit and instead urged the community to pray for the young boy. In the message we received from J Kruger, he wrote: “I am contacting you today to humbly ask if there is any way you would be willing to change the life of a man who saved another, would be nothing short of incredible? I personally feel a heroic act like this must be rewarded!”Eduvos could not agree more, we’re happy to announce that Phillip has been awarded a bursary. Elna has since reached out to Vectra Technologies who have happily provided Phillip with a new laptop to assist him in pursuing his dream career. Phillip has officially enrolled at Eduvos, for a higher certificate in Information Systems part-time. He has expressed his passion for electronics, artificial intelligence, and computer programming. We just know he is going to succeed in all he does and more with us here at Eduvos. Phillip’s story resonated with us because he embodies our values of humanness, accountability, relevance, and an entrepreneurial spirit.  He was very humane when he saved that young boy’s life. He is also clearly taking accountability for his life and dreams by using his entrepreneurial spirit to work so he can fund his studies. His passion for technology happens to be very relevant to our ever-changing world. Congratulations Phillip, the world needs all the heroes it can get! Contact us at www.eduvos.com to learn more about the tailored education that we provide can do for you.