Image supplied: From 'The Bread Exam' by LBCFWith many brands adapting their marketing strategies as the pandemic continued to take hold, the four juries of client-and agency-side industry experts examined the insight, strategy and analytics that power effective media investment. They awarded four Grands Prix, ten Golds, 17 Silvers, 25 Bronzes and 12 Special Awards honouring specific areas of excellence. UK leads with eight wins. China, Germany, the USA and Vietnam follow with four awards each. Canada takes home three and India, Malaysia and New Zealand each won two awards. Chile, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Netherlands, Philippines, Puerto Rico, Sri Lanka, Turkey and UAE have all won one award. There are four winning global campaigns and ten award-winning regional campaigns for Asia, Europe, Scandinavia, MENA and North America.  Effective Channel IntegrationThe Grand Prix and Path-to-Purchase Award were awarded to PHD Canada for ‘Vacation Intervention’, which saw Air Transat convince 75,000 workers not to lose their unused vacation days, with nearly 50% of reservations coming from new clients. Ronnie Thomas, Group director, Global Business Development, Publicis Groupe, said, “Travel brands tend to be very lower-funnel and promo-led, especially in the lead up to big holiday seasons. ‘Vacation Intervention’ went the other way - with a strong insight, a very interesting central idea and a multi-channel campaign that was fun, topical and successful.” The jury led by Ron Amram, senior director, Global Media, Mars, awarded a further three Golds, five Silvers and five Bronzes. The POE Award was won by FP7 McCann Dubai for ‘A Dad’s Job' for home furniture retailer, Home Centre. The Effective Cross-Channel Measurement Award went to MediaCom's global campaign ‘PS5 – 2020's biggest entertainment launch’ for gaming console Sony PlayStation.  See all Effective Channel Integration winners here. Effective Use of TechHavas Sports and Entertainment was awarded the Grand Prix for French welfare association, L’Enfant Bleu. In ‘Undercover Avatar’ they created an in-game confidante to enable children to speak out about abuse. The activity generated 700m media impressions and the French government is now working on solutions that will turn video games into a new way to identify abused children.  Judge Luca Vergano, vice president, Strategy, Elephant, said, “Leveraging a native behaviour (and interest) in a smart way. A really powerful way to do things purposefully different.”  Impressing the jury led by Rajoielle Register, head of Global Brand Experiences, Ford Motor Company, the initiative also won two Special Awards: Most Scalable Idea and Platform Pioneer. A further two Golds, four Silvers and seven Bronzes were awarded. The Early Adopter Award was won by MullenLowe US for ‘Ring King’.  See all Effective Use of Tech winners here. Effective Use of Partnerships and SponsorshipsMcCann Paris and FP7 McCann Dubai were awarded the Grand Prix and Effective Native Award for Lebanese Breast Cancer Foundation (LBCF). For ‘The Bread Exam’ the NGO collaborated with a traditional baker to create a bread-making video to show women how to self-examine. The campaign reached 112m people and over nine months increased awareness by 83% and screenings by 41%. Judge Faisal Alani, head of Partnerships, Ebay, said, “They identified breast cancer as something that is difficult to talk about in culture but managed to make it part of the conversation through the topic of bread making, something that is an integral part of the culture. They tackled the problem in an incredibly thoughtful way, it really warmed my heart.”  The jury chaired by Sarita Rao, president, Integrated and Partner Solutions, AT&T Business, awarded a further two Golds, four Silvers and six Bronzes. COPA90 won two Special Awards: The Collaboration with an Influencer Award, for Budweiser’s ‘Messi X Budweiser 644’, and the Successful Sponsorship Award for ‘Music Keeps Us Playing’ for Pepsi and Pepsi Max.  View all Effective Use of Partnerships and Sponsorships winners here. Best Use of DataThe Grand Prix and Personalisation Award were awarded to FCB New Zealand for ‘Personalising Danger’, a campaign for Water Safety New Zealand. By fusing historical, real-time and future data, they built a predictive model to reduce deaths of young men from drowning. The campaign reached 95% of its target group and achieved zero deaths.  Judge Kathrin Jesse, chief strategy officer and partner, Wirz Group, Switzerland, said, “Other entrants are just gathering data. But to actually save lives? If only one life is saved, it’s already a success. This is data put to good use.” The jury led by Siew Ting Foo, chief marketing officer, Greater Asia, HP, also awarded three Golds, four Silvers and seven Bronzes. The Data-Driven Insight Award was warded to MullenLowe US for Burger King’s ‘Delay Your Way’. The Attribution Award was awarded to Ekimetrics for ‘Using Advanced Analytics to Market Profitability in a Pandemic’ for hospitality brand Accor.  View all Best Use of Data winners here.