Image: Enter the Swiwel 3D career expoTouted as the world’s first 3D immersive career expo, Swiwel.com was launched by South Africa's 3RC earlier today, 21 January 2021. The platform allows users to navigate a virtual expo space that hosts stands from an array of private higher education institutions. Users are able to engage and interact with each stand in order to see what the academy or college has to offer. Prospective students can also use the search function to explore courses via their chosen career path.Swiwel's virtual platform is open 365 days per year, 24 hours per day, and is 100% free for all users both locally and internationally looking to study in South Africa.When asked whether they planned the launch to coincide with the release of the NSC results, Kay Cheytanov, founder and CEO of 3RC says, "It was a totally happy coincidence, however we always planned to launch in this week... synchronicity." 3RC is known for hosting live Rocking Future Career Expos at schools nationwide, enabling Grade 12 students to gain insight and exposure to some of South Africa’s leading private colleges. In response to the Covid-19 restrictions in 2020, the company quickly pivoted to create its Rocking Future Virtual Career Expos. This allowed the company to broaden its reach, allowing for more students around South Africa the access to information around their career and tertiary education options, which they didn't have before.Swiwel is now the next step in this innovation.What users can expect Over 40 exhibitors: Engage with various South African private tertiary institutions and some international placement agencies, peruse 150 qualifications, and interact with video views of campuses spread out over two floors. Stands feature audio-powered presentations, interactive videos with information on the courses and campuses, and even a direct link to talk directly with colleges via WhatsApp.  Diverse study options: Over 150 study opportunities, from traditional law, engineering, and business options to alternative career paths, including courses from Cheeba Academy, if you’re interested in the cannabis industry, and from GoFourth Learning, a tech company offering courses in fourth industrial revolution career opportunities, like drone pilot and cyber security engineering. International qualifications: International opportunities abound, without the heavy financial burden of travel, such as the The Animation School, School of Entrepreneurship or Stadio, an internationally recognised college which has brought together courses from the Southern Business School, Embury Institute for Higher Education, LISOF, and Prestige Academy, offering accredited qualifications via contact, distance and blended learning, across nine campuses. There is also overseas placement with IAM360 to universities and colleges all over America. Career guidance: Not sure where to start or what you want to study? Visit the Yenza stand for career guidance support before you go on a tour to really maximise your time in Swiwel.  Enter the auditorium: Here users gain full access to pre-recorded workshops and presentations from the various institutions. Exciting competitions: There are prizes on offer through competitions hosted by the various stands and brands, including prizes from brands like Staedtler, Casio and Lee Cooper.Image: Some of the stands to be explored on the Swiwel 3D career expo floorWhile the site, which is currently hosted overseas due to the technology they are using, is not yet zero-rated, Cheytanov says, "We actually explored this route but have not had any success as yet – we just hope that someone in the powers that be see the platform and realise just how powerful it can be to those who don’t have access to real life expos... Wouldn't that be amazing."Insights and data3RC is able to map each student entering the platform, strictly adhering to PoPI and with parental consent provided for those users under 18 years of age, and expects to host 50,000 visitors over the next 12 to 18 months. Not only is 3RC able to gain valuable insights from the data collected, including target audience statistics, but they are also able to generate leads for participating colleges and brands. Although many of the stands are fully booked, there are a few that are still available to those tertiary institutions and brands still looking to get involved and take advantage of branding and partnership opportunities.