The decisions around what to study and where to study are serious ones for a family. Factors such as accreditation, costs, quality, closeness to home and safety are always important concerns for parents. However, our pandemic experience over the past two years has raised other issues for parents and students needing to make tertiary education decisions in the next few months. Janine Kendall, counselling psychologist and Sacap’s head of Teaching and Learning: Education Recruitment says: “What came out of our research is that parents are uncertain and concerned for their children’s tertiary education journey as a result of the pandemic and general environmental challenges. Parents and guardians want to be confident that the tertiary institution they select with their matriculants, delivers on robust academic quality with practical skills, provides a safe environment, and offers the support to nurture students in uncharted waters. As they have closely supported their high school learners through disruptions, lockdowns and threats of illness, parents have a keener awareness at this time of the value in their children developing resilience and agility so that they cope during uncertain and challenging times.”  Researching, considering and applying to tertiary institutions along with your child works best by following an agreed process, where roles and responsibilities, and where the power lies in decision-making are clear upfront. Itemising your priorities when it comes to what you want from the institution can expand the criteria you and your child will use to evaluate, which supports optimal decision-making. For instance, the quality, breadth and depth of student support services offered may be important for new students who require input and reassurance as they embark on their studies.  Educational philosophy and institutional values may be important to some parents who want their children growing up to be agile thinkers and appropriately flexible in a world that is becoming increasingly uncertain and volatile. Kendall says: “It was interesting to find in our research that many parents were not just concerned about academic rigour, but also want to see their children gain practical skills through their tertiary studies. This is a shift in today’s parents who are recognising that tertiary institutions need to help students become work-ready and that their study experience needs to build real-life competencies as well as academic knowledge. Sacap is very well placed to deliver on these needs and to ensure that our graduates are able to respond and adapt to challenging environments as they grow in their career.”Sacap, which offers accredited degree programmes in Applied Psychology, Management & Leadership, and Social Work & Community Development, has a keen focus on innovative teaching and content styles for educating agile thinkers for the future. That institutional agility was put into practice over the pandemic years, when Sacap has kept every student always on track with their studies with very few interruptions and delays. Sacap also has one of the most comprehensive and holistic student support services offered in South Africa.Sacap registrar, Claire Du Plooy says: “I have had the privilege of studying in various higher education private and public institutions, and I have never seen or experienced student support and development in quite the way Sacap offers it. Sacap recognises that academics is one part of the student's life and journey, but that their academic success also relies on their emotional and psychosocial wellbeing. The focus is therefore on the holistic student, from academics to emotional support to student life. I think the one thing that sets Sacap’s student support and development apart is that I genuinely believe that each member of the team has a passion for students, for their growth and for their success. Practically, what this looks like is the availability of individual and group counselling support, individual and group academic support, various workshops, online interventions, social events, advocacy and leadership opportunities, peer-support, and support and genuine care of our students on their academic journey.”This is designed with the needs and wants of Gen Z students particularly in mind as a generation which values input, mentoring and close support as they develop the all-round skills and particular 4iR skills-sets that will help set them up for work success.Kendall concludes: “Parents and their matriculants need to take a range of factors into consideration as they seek a good match between their child’s learning style, strengths and challenges, as well as their career goals. Tertiary education is a whole-of-life, absorbing experience, and each aspect of this plays a role in the outcomes of their child’s studies.”  To find out more visit: www.sacap.edu.za.