Previously group account director on the internationally award-winning Pick n Pay portfolio at JBSA and more recently, head of Food for brands such as food24.com and eatout.co.za, Natalie has over 20 years’ experience in the content marketing, publishing and digital media space. Her impressive portfolio spans multiple clients and some of South Africa’s (SA’s) largest brands encompassing the FMCG, automotive, food and retail environment.Commenting on her appointment, Wilson says: “I am thrilled to be joining John Brown Media SA, this time at the helm. It’s a challenging and hugely exciting time for content marketing, with the market brimming with potential. On top of delivering hugely creative and innovative work, John Brown has always stood for the depth and longevity of relationships, with clients, staff and audiences – so it feels very fitting to return home to re-join a team with such brilliant values. I simply can’t wait to get stuck in.”Working alongside executive content director, Justine Drake and supported by digital director, Emma Odendaal, and brand director Samantha Stevens, Natalie will be reporting to dentsu SA CEO, Koo Govender.“I am delighted to have Natalie re-join the dentsu SA team as managing director for John Brown Media and to have another female leader join our team. Natalie re-joins the business with a huge amount of business, client and brand experience and I know she will add immense value to the dentsu family and our clients. The future for JBSA is exciting and I wish her huge success in her new role” – Koo Govender, CEO of dentsu South Africa. Wilson will be responsible for maintaining, developing and entrenching JBSA’s positioning, product offering and culture within the SA market in order to enhance and build on an established and successful business model. In addition, her role will also include supporting and delivering the digital future and redefining the business to support the future growth strategy of the dentsu business. “Having worked with Natalie for a number of years when she was previously group account director on the Pick n Pay account, I am well aware of her business acumen, savvy and charm! She knows the content landscape in both print and digital inside and out and I am completely thrilled and very excited at what the future holds for us as we lead John Brown South Africa into 2022 and beyond,” said Justine Drake, executive content director for JBSA.