Geleza ne Gagasi, which means study with Gagasi, is the station’s CSI campaign that helps to alleviate the financial pressures that come with going back to school. Geleza ne Gagasi has been changing lives for 14 years now since its inception in 2008, and in 2022 continues to showcase care alongside Sasko. Listeners are encouraged to enter by submitting their final academic results along with a motivational letter stating why they deserve to receive assistance from Gagasi FM, in partnership with Sasko. Prizes include school uniform vouchers, stationary vouchers, bursaries and much more.Sasko has successfully led various Corporate Social Investment initiatives over the years in their commitment to showcase Care within South African communities. The partnership with Sasko, and Gagasi FM is one of shared values because through Geleza ne Gagasi, Sasko and Gagasi FM  will enrich and improve our listeners’ lives as well as continue to demonstrate care. Together Gagasi FM, in partnership with Sasko will ensure that the three groups within Geleza ne Gagasi are taken care of, through namely, Back to School, Back to Study and Adopt a School. Back to School is for learners at primary and high school level. Back to Study is for tertiary students. Finally, the latest addition is Adopt a School where schools that are in dire need of assistance are nominated and Gagasi FM in partnership with Sasko adopts one school that will receive assistance for a year. Geleza ne Gagasi is an initiative that listeners look forward to annually. That is why every year Gagasi FM receives over a thousand entries. With the plight of Covid-19, a great number of job losses and a strained South African economy, many households need Geleza ne Gagasi now, more than ever. Even in 2022, Gagasi FM in partnership with Sasko will ensure that our listeners experience the power of collaboration between two powerful brands. Sasko, Taste the Care #SASKOTasteTheCare.Entries are open now until the 7th February 2022. Visit our Gagasi FM website at, gagasiworld.co.za to enter. Facebook: GagasiWorld  |  Twitter: @GagasiFM  |  Instagram: @gagasifmFacebook: SASKO  |  Twitter: @SaskoSA  |  Instagram: @sasko_sa