Source: PexelsThe IBM Sustainability Accelerator will provide support to each selected organisation for two years in a two-phased approach: Phase 1Accelerator engagements will kick off with the IBM Garage - IBM’s methodology to apply design thinking and agile techniques to fast-track meaningful innovation and drive lasting culture change. During this process, IBM experts will work with the beneficiary organisations to identify their needs and establish a clear roadmap to design, develop, deploy and continually improve technology to help solve specific public challenges. Half of non-profit organisations are failing to comply with the law17 Feb 2022 Phase 2In a second phase, IBM cross-industry experts will configure IBM resources and technology designed to help participants meet their community and environmental impact goals. Some of the technologies that will be applied will include IBM Watson AI, IBM Cloud, or the Environmental Intelligence Suite, among others.  In addition, IBM Sustainability Accelerator beneficiary organizations will receive monthly IBM Cloud credits, weather data credits, mentorship, and access to IBM partner ecosystem. IBM experts will also support pilot deployments of solutions to help facilitate optimal implementation, to scale long-term impact and drive key societal outcomes. The selection processEach year, IBM will define one theme for the RFP and project selection of the organisations that belong to that year’s cohort. The company is inviting non-profit organisations to apply to a public RFP for the 2022 cohort’s focus on clean energy. Proposals are due by 30 April 2022 and should be submitted through IBM’s Submission Portal. Survey finds volunteering programmes are a vital component of good corporate citizenshipIssued by Trialogue 11 Feb 2022Justina Nixon, vice president of corporate social responsibility and ESG at IBM commented: “We believe that the power of science, technology and innovation can help tackle environmental issues while serving vulnerable communities exposed to environmental hazards.   “By pairing expertise and technology with the goal of improving the lives of populations most affected by environmental threats, we have the potential to make lasting, scalable impact.”