"As a destination that caters to MICE tourism alongside its many recreational options, the KZN South Coast is looking forward to hosting more ‘bleisure’ tourism this year and we’ve attempted to make this as easy as possible for organisers," explained Phelisa Mangcu, CEO of USCT. "We enjoy a year-round subtropical climate which makes outdoor events possible, and our tourism establishments provide world-class facilities and services in the heart of the Paradise of the Zulu Kingdom. USCT also shares all updated Covid-19 regulations with local establishments across our various communication platforms to encourage stringent safety measures are followed."Top MICE destinationThe KZN South Coast is an emerging MICE destination, whether for team building events, small-scale engagements, conferences and bleisure tourism. With its tranquil Indian Ocean, refreshing nature reserves, rivers, waterfalls and lagoons, this is the perfect destination for those looking to escape the busyness of city living and productively engage in a more relaxed environment.FeaturesThe business hub: The stunning coastal town of Port Shepstone is the region’s business hub, having grown from a seaside holiday destination to become the administrative, commercial, distribution and transport centre of the KZN South Coast. The abundance of available services and facilities is positioning the region as a drawcard for business events, as well as platform from which visitors can enjoy the surrounding tourism options. Accessibility: There are domestic and international flights into King Shaka International Airport (KSIA) – just an hour-and-a-half’s drive from Port Shepstone - with car hire facilities and scheduled shuttles to the KZN South Coast. There are also several private airstrips. From Durban it’s a 45-minute drive and less than seven hours from Johannesburg along the national highway.Venues: The KZN South Coast boasts a number of accommodation and conference venues suited to varying tastes, requirements and budget, with capacity for up to 300 delegates.The 'Golf Coast': Stretching from Umkomaas to the Wild Coast and inland to Harding, there are 11 quality golf courses found on the ‘Golf Coast’, many boasting exquisite sea views while winding through nature reserves. Among them are Selborne Park Golf Estate, one of country’s premium residential golf estates; Southbroom Golf Club, one of the area’s most popular courses; and the Wild Coast Sun Country Club which is one of the top 10 courses in the country. These are the perfect spots for those who prefer to conduct and conclude deals on the greens, before unwinding at the 19th hole!Teambuilding: There are endless unique teambuilding experiences to be had on the KZN South Coast, including horse riding, shark cage diving, ziplining, gorge swinging, cave hikes, and authentic cultural tours. The area is home to incredibly dynamic and unique natural locations, among them Blue Flag beaches, Lake Eland Game Reserve, Oribi Gorge, KwaXolo Caves, Aliwal Shoal, and Protea Banks – the perfect destinations for outdoor adventure! The locally based tour guides and event organisers are ready to put together a unique teambuilding experience that pushes the limits while creating a truly memorable experience.The Meeting Planner GuideThe guide has been compiled as a one-stop directory for all business conference, meetings, teambuilding and accommodation requirements. It consists of a detailed list of existing MICE venues, teambuilding activities on offer, and relevant contact information. Access the KZN South Coast Meeting Planner Guide.