Readers have come to Visi for the best of South African design, decor and architecture since 1998. The print magazine is celebrated for its top-quality images, writing by some of the country’s best journalists and industry insiders, and creative layout – all of which have made every issue collectable. In recent years, Visi has expanded on this offering, with an e-commerce store and special editions of Visi Kitchens and Visi Bathrooms.The latest special edition, Visi Style, is a natural extension of the brand’s celebration of local design. Whereas Visi focuses on design, decor and architecture, Visi Style spotlights high-end luxury lifestyle – featuring couture, fragrances, jewellery, watches, automotive and tech, art and design, furniture, food and drink, and luxury travel.click to enlarge“Visi Style is a reflection of the interests and tastes of our discerning audience,” says Visi editor-in-chief, Steve Smith. “As the saying goes: ‘Fashion you can buy, but style you possess.’ Style is effortless, innate, and entirely personal – an expression of how you are in the world. I’ve always thought Visi to have its own sense of style, one that has changed and evolved over the years – always a tastemaker. With Visi Style, we’re inviting our audience to add a few more facets to their own personal style.”Produced by the core Visi editorial team at New Media – including international award-winning creative director Mark Serra – the first edition of the annual Visi Style features new haute couture fashion collabs, local and international designer hotels, the latest decor trends from Design Miami, and the cool new electric cars coming to SA in 2022.In addition, six SA style makers – the original design, art and fashion influencers – share their most treasured items. They are cultural entrepreneur and museum consultant Elana Brundyn; Neimil designers Keneilwe Mothoa and Lubabalo Mxalisa; director architect Christiaan van Aswegen; photographer, filmmaker and art director Fhatuwani Mukheli; and filmmaker and artist Justice Mukheli.Smith explains: “What works or not in print is all about the subject matter. For example, Visi’s features of beautiful architecture include big full-bleed images on high-quality paper. The Visi print magazine is the best medium for this content. In addition, I follow a lineage of Visi editors with uncompromising editorial values who have laid down a consistent and unwavering approach of curating only the best. That has been instrumental in building the brand’s reputation and a loyal audience.”Visi Style is available in print on newsstands nationwide or via the Visi Shop.