Personally, I am someone who loves the black and brown square plain frame – it works for me. It’s plain and simple and well, it suits me (and my comfort), however, a recent visit to Spectacle World (also known as Camarena Porter Optometrist), located at N1 Value Centre in Cape Town’s northern suburbs challenged my comfort zone and took me on an eyewear styling experience that had me question all my previous spectacle choices. As one of the first company’s in South Africa to obtain a certificate in The Art of Eyewear Styling course with Eva Davé, presented by the Eyewear Styling Academy, Spectacle World offers a bespoke, consultation process to help you find the perfect pair of spectacles that suits not only your personality, but your face and features too. At the forefront of current, future trendsI’ve been for 12 eye tests over the last 24 years and this was the first time I felt put at ease during a consultation. Adele Camarena, owner and director at Spectacle World, is a force to be reckoned with in her craft, setting the bar and trend in her industry. Adele Camarena, owner and director at Spectacle World.As an independent optometrist for more than 30 years in practice, Camarena says that it has always been of paramount importance to her that Spectacle World offers excellent clinical care, customer service, optical lens and frame styling. "Poor sight is a disability that can have an enormous effect on your success and security. Eyewear enables you to see well and at the same time look great. It’s wonderful if the frame lets the client feel confident and attractive."Camerena and her team learned to identify the six different style personalities and matching styles of eyewear for each, to analyse a client’s dominant colour type, face and features, about the psychology of colour and how to effectively stock eyewear styles and designs to suit every client’s needs."We had such fun doing the course together. We now have an established styling consultation process and feel confident to suggest and select eyewear that complements our clients’ features, colouring and unique style.""Most of our clients are desperate for a new look and want to feel special and energised, but are afraid of change. As stylists, we guide them safely to the most suitable choice. Colour plays an enormous role when selecting frames as it enhances appearance including eye, hair and skin colour. Although many of us favour neutral frames such as black or brown, these aren’t always the most flattering. Frames should mirror your personality and style, from natural to dramatic, classic to bold. Plus, it can make you look younger."The styling processThe consultation process was unlike any other I have experienced before. There were no feelings of awkwardness having to face yet another row of frames I was unsure of. From the get-go, I felt put at ease and felt like I was in good hands. From big and bold frames to soft and modern ones, I happened to try on frames I wouldn’t have otherwise; but that is exactly what Camerena and her team offer – an opportunity for you to step out of your comfort zone, to have fun and laugh a little at yourself. The process takes into account your style, colour type and facial features. I had to fill out a multiple-choice questionnaire which gave the team a little insight into me, my likes and what I would choose when it comes to the type of clothing I wear, what my favourite colour is and my shopping preferences. I felt as though I was an open book, and also open to trying something new. We eventually settled on a cat-frame from the David Green collection, which is grey, with salmon pink on the top. Each of Green’s spectacle creations is made using fallen leaves and items from nature.  The lenses feature the latest Zeiss digital lenses with DuraVision® BlueProtect coating. It’s the latest optical lens technology to enhance clear comfortable vision on all digital screens.According to the Zeiss website, these lenses provide a coating specifically designed for those who spend a lot of their time indoors and are exposed to blue-violet light from LEDs as well as TV, computer and tablet screen. The Zeiss' blue light coatings for spectacle lenses block specific wavelengths of light and can help to relieve the eyestrain perceived by the customers which are typically associated with blue light exposure.The second pair that we chose was for sunglasses. These were also shades that I wouldn't ordinarily have chosen for myself. They're bold yet chic and honestly makes me feel like a diva; something I'm not used to feeling like. So there is something to be said about stepping out of ones comfort zone and trying something new. If it weren't for Camarena and her team, I would have remained a bit of a comfortable mess, but all-in-all it was really a lovely experience. If you're ever in the market for something hip and funky (and keen to step out of your comfort zone, even a little), I'd suggest heading over to Spectacle World to have your frame world rocked!