Alistair Mokoena, country director for Google South Africa.At a virtual #Google4SouthAfrica event, Google unpacked its support for startups, SMMEs and nonprofits in a bid to accelerate digital transformation and help South Africa’s economy recover. This follows announcements made at the virtual Google for Africa event in October 2021 where Google and Alphabet CEO, Sundar Pichai, announced Google’s plan to invest $1bn over five years to support Africa’s digital transformation. The focus of these investments is on enabling fast, affordable internet access for more Africans; building helpful products; supporting entrepreneurship and small business; and helping nonprofits to improve lives across Africa.Google to invest $1bn in digital transformation in Africa6 Oct 2021"Small businesses contribute an estimated 52% of South Africa's GDP, according to the National Empowerment Fund and employs millions of South Africans. Our goal is to help SMEs recover as they are the drivers of our economy and to help South Africans grow and thrive. We're here for the long term, and our investments in programmes demonstrate this", said Alistair Mokoena, country director for Google South Africa. Hustle AcademyIn support of SMEs, Google, in partnership with the Department of Small Business Development, has launched another initiative called the Hustle Academy.The Hustle Academy is a free one-weeklong boot camp that will assist small businesses to grow by increasing revenue, positioning themselves for investment and building sustainable business models for the future. It launches on 21 February 2022. The initiative will offer live training sessions, one-on-one mentorship and masterclasses. Participants will also gain direct access to a wealth of networking opportunities.“Digital markets and digital transformation are important enablers for the Department of Small Business Development’s vision to ensure a transformed and inclusive economy, driven by sustainable, innovative small, medium, and micro enterprises and cooperatives. The initiatives discussed today at Google for South Africa are strongly aligned to this vision” said Minister for Small Business Development, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams. To take your small business to the next level, go to g.co/hustleacademy