The Marketing Achievement Awards, endorsed by the Marketing Association of South Africa, celebrates excellence in the science and art of strategic marketing. Setting a benchmark for excellence through the publication of winning case studies, the awards inspire marketers to prove marketing’s value to the bottom line. Furthermore, they are an opportunity to prove the positive commercial impact of marketing and brand building with demonstrable business results, including promoting analytical and creative marketing that impacts business positively. Now in their third year, this year the awards have adopted a new positioning – ‘Celebrating marketing excellence in business’ – and a new theme – ‘Marketing that means business’ – to help drive marketing’s stature in business while at the same time shaping the industry and promoting it as an illustrious career choice.  Open to marketers throughout South Africa, the Marketing Achievement Awards invites entrants to enter work that has managed to generate significant impact within their businesses in one or more of 15 award categories across different marketing areas. This includes the Marketer of the Year category which recognises the best marketer in the industry who has delivered innovative marketing, positively impacted business results and used their influence to drive the industry forward. Finalists in this category are nominated by their peers. The Marketer of the Year award will be co-presented by Masa and the MAA’s presenting partner, the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC). Group executive of Corporate Affairs and Marketing at the SABC, Gugu Ntuli, says the public broadcaster applauds marketers who use strategic marketing to connect with their customers and audiences. “As the SABC, we share the Marketing Achievement Awards’ commitment to developing the marketing profession in South Africa,” says Ntuli.Following the deadline extension, final registrations to enter now close at midnight on the 15th February 2022 with the Gala Awards presentation taking place on 31 May 2022. Full entry criteria and details can be found at https://marketingawards.co.za/marketing-organisation-of-the-year/. #TagAMarketer #MarketingAchievementAwards #MarketingThatMeans BusinessFor further information contact:az.oc.sdrawagnitekram@ofni or 066 3000 842Thanks to the partners and patrons who make these awards possible: SABC – presenting partner Accenture Interactive – experience partner Primedia Outdoor – out of home partner Marketing Association of South Africa – endorsing partner HKLM – patron Google – patron Absa Bank – patron Kantar – patron Nando's – patronMondelēz International – patron Bizcommunity – online media partner Nfinity Media – friend Newsclip – friend amaSocial – friend Turnleftmedia – friend RMS Media – friendIAB South Africa – friend