What we doSocial sampling: We exchange products for authentic social conversations with large groups of aligned, opted-in realfluencers within our vast and broad interest-based communities.Consumer Review Sampling: We exchange products with targeted consumers for reviews and insightful market research.Who we areEleven years ago, Brand Influence launched Beauty Bulletin – a product review platform that gave women the honest opinions needed to supercharge their purchasing power. Today, Beauty Bulletin has evolved into a mega online community; a women-focused B2C platform in the personal care, beauty, and health and wellness space that exchanges products for reliable, impactful, and genuine social conversations. It’s also the home of widely-trusted ever-green product reviews – your ticket to prime Google ranking.After Beauty Bulletin’s steamrolling success – including work with the likes of Unilever, Tiger Brands, Colgate Palmolive, GSK, Indigo Brands, and many more – came the birth of Brand Advisor in 2019.Brand Advisor is a unisex B2C platform focusing on lifestyle brands and categories, and provides the same offering as Beauty Bulletin. It has grown from strength to strength in an extremely short space of time. We boast an already incredible track record with brands such as Rajah, Oros, Handy Andy, and Checkers’ Simple Truth, to name a few.What makes us uniqueThe difference between us and traditional influencer marketing agencies? We hand-pick influencers from our database of thousands. We work with hundreds of influencers per project; realfluencers that genuinely align with your brand so you can expect authentic storytelling that delivers results: genuine engagement, trusted reviews, insightful market research, and enduring brand-consumer relationships.Unlike traditional influencer marketing, our realfluencers don’t work in silos – they don’t just talk to their own audiences. We use a unique community model that drives a narrative into a web of interconnectivity that delivers explosive impact every time. Think: a custom project solution built around your brand that delivers on your specific objectives and needs.We do brand awareness, education, perception, consideration, and conversion, and we do it really well.Client testimonials:“Bio-Oil South Africa have partnered with Brand Influence for a number of new product launch campaigns over the years. The results have always surpassed our expectations, with the team taking the learnings from the past campaign and applying them to the next with even better results! The process of briefing, developing and executing a campaign with their internal team has always been professional and thorough. As experts in the social sampling field, our partnership with Brand Influence has delivered campaigns that generated mass social hype, authentic product reviews and high-quality user-generated content. A real win for our brand.” Lauren Parker, brand marketing manager.“It has been wonderful working with the Brand Influence team. They are efficient, always keep you in the loop and deliver great results. It was so great to see the amazing, authentic content for Rajah come through on social media and build the brand’s relevance and online image. I would recommend using Brand Influence for brands that want to develop a more authentic voice online!” Genevieve Fynn, Rajah junior brand manager.  See it to believe it. Go to our websites Brand Influence, Beauty Bulletin, Brand Advisor, and follow us on Instagram at @beauty_bulletin and @brandadvisor.co.za.Contact us for a customised solution for your product, service, or brand and see why our reputation precedes us for yourself.