Source: SuppliedThe National Consumer Commission (NCC) has urged consumers in possession of Similac Alimentum 400g infant formula to immediately discontinue use of the product and return it to the point of sale for a full refund. 	“The manufacturer, Abbott Laboratories-Nutrition informed the Commission of a voluntary recall following a global recall as announced by the supplier. We understand that this product is manufactured at their plant in Sturgin, Michigan in the United States of America and was imported to South Africa and other countries. The supplier confirmed that the recall was prompted by consumers who reported that their infants presented some symptoms after ingesting the formula. Internal testings confirmed the presence of both Cronobacter and Salmonella Microoganisms in the product,” said acting commissioner Thezi Mabuza.Affected productsConsumers are urged to look for the following product description to determine whether the products form part of the recall.Product name: Similac Alimentum 400g infant formulaBatch numbers: 27938z26 and 29284Z26Manufacturing dates: March 2021 and May 2021Expiry dates: 1 April 2023 and 1 June 2023No SA cases reportedThough according to Abbott Laboratories, only four cases were reported in the USA, the presence of Cronobacter and Salmonella in an infant formula is a cause for concern, stated the Commission. “As the Commission, we want to emphasise that while there are no cases reported in South Africa as yet, we urge consumers who might have bought this product not to feed their infants but to immediately return it to the point of purchase for a full refund,” continued Mabuza.Nestlé recalls Kit Kat products, which may contain glass pieces4 Feb 2022“Ingesting Salmonella may lead to diarrhea, fever and abdominal cramps, while Cronobacter infection may also cause dagame to the bowel system. We therefore encourage parents who have concerns that they might have fed their infants the product in question to seek medical attention. “The Consumer Protection Act (CPA) provides for safety of consumers at all times, and minors are regarded amongst the most vulnerable consumers. We appreciate the precautionary recall by the supplier, however producers/manufacturers are required to supply or distribute goods that are safe and of good quality to avoid these mishaps. The Commission is monitoring the recall based on its Recall Guidelines,” Mabuza concluded.