Source: www.pexels.comHere’s looking at you internet trolls. Being online more than ever before throughout the pandemic, I saw the rate of abuse influencers receive, exponentially and rapidly increase. Interactions included anything from body shaming to completely unsolicited advice.Admittedly, I’m always taken aback by these interactions and how many influencers or public figures are *usually able to approach these interactions with kindness and grace. But, do we really have to be taught how to communicate on the internet? Surely, it should follow the same nuances and etiquette we display in person? Surely being rude isn’t our initial and natural approach to communication? And are the topics we’re choosing to engage on really that important? In the last few years between Twitter feuds and Facebook rants, it seems as though rudeness has become our new normal. And with our interactions extending to the digital realm, it's difficult to practice a reflective process by asking ourselves, "Why is this truly important?”It certainly isn’t just influencers being subjected to this form of internet bullying, at least (a staggering) 41% of adults have been bullied or harassed online and 66% of people have witnessed it. So why are people on the internet just being outright mean? Well, there’s actually a scientific reason for it. Phycologist John Suler has referred to it as the online disinhibition effect. This effect has two versions – toxic and benign and sometimes this effect can even be positive. So how does lower inhibition actualize on the internet? Anonymity - It’s easy to hide behind a faceless or private social media account and that in turn allows us to lack accountability for our actions. Lag time – Our interactions don’t happen in real-time and that allows us to say more impulsive or harmful things.Non-verbal cuesSo the next time you feel your blood boiling as you’re scrolling the world wide web, take a step back and think about how can we change the way we’re interacting with each other and how can we strive to make meaningful connections again? So let’s not take the resources we have for granted and focus on how we can support each other and find help in communities we would never previously have had access to before. It is the month of love after all, isn’t it?