State capture has robbed the poorest of the poor and it is up to every South African to ensure that it is rooted out and defeated. Unite 4 Mzansi™ endorses the recommendations of the Zondo reports in totality –  particularly the recommendations that have been put forward on how to deal with those implicated in wrongdoing.“When it comes to corruption and state capture, we need to take to heart the lessons we have learned to ensure that the gross breaches of public trust that have become so prevalent in our country come to an end. We need to hold frank discussions about what needs to change in society and then be radical in our focus on implementing these changes to ensure that consequence management is done in the interest of ordinary South Africans. We do not need more processes, we need to act,” exclaims Professor Bonang Mohale, chair of Unite 4 Mzansi™. “As business leaders, it is up to us to re-instil a sense of purpose in our professions by offering to help rebuild South Africa into a truly capable state. To do this, we need to support the processes that the government has undertaken so far and find ways in which we can use our expertise to expedite these processes. Importantly, in showing our commitment to change, we must also stand beside those who have stood up against corruption and assist them in any way possible,” he adds. "Yet," says Mohale, "support is only one side of this coin."If South Africa is to truly stamp out corruption, its citizens also need a detailed understanding of what went wrong at every layer of governance. It is only when we know this that we can ensure that the lessons of state capture are not only never forgotten but, more importantly, never repeated. It is with this in mind that an important part of the Unite 4 Mzansi™ movement’s work is to analyse in depth how the guardians of governance failed in each of the prevalent cases of gross corruption that has riddled the country. Recently, Unite 4 Mzansi™ completed its latest case study analysis of Transnet and, today, it is releasing that case study video to the public. Taking the form of a 15-minute case study video, Unite 4 Mzansi’s™ research team highlights just how deep the failure of the guardians of governance was and how much work went into the detrimental looting of this important state-owned entity. It is vital viewing, and Unite 4 Mzansi™ urges every South African to view the video.“Whether we think we are culpable or not, we all have a role to play and need to think about ourselves as partners with the government in resolving issues of corruption and ensuring we build a society that is progressive and successful. We all need to take a stand,” concludes Mohale.