International guest artists and the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra, under the baton of conductor Brandon Phillips, perform alongside the talented dancers of CTCB at select performances.Image supplied  Seating remains strictly limited due to social distancing and government regulations. All Covid-19 regulations will be in place including social distancing and wearing of masks throughout. This much-loved ballet presents a romantic story of innocent love and betrayal portrayed in two acts. Giselle, a naive and beautiful peasant girl who loves to dance, unsuspectingly falls in love with a philandering nobleman, Albrecht. He disguises himself as a peasant while pursuing her affections, and when the deceit is revealed, Giselle is inconsolable. In discovering that he is already betrothed, she dies of a broken heart.  The story continues in the moonlit land of the Wilies, a mysterious landscape inhabited by the vengeful spirits of virgin brides who never reached their wedding day. The ghostly Wilies torment Albrecht as he appears in search of the spirit of Giselle. The duality of the body and spirit, an evocation of the supernatural, and the tale of undying love and devotion endears this quintessentially romantic ballet to a universal audience. Giselle is performed to the music of Adolphe Adam, with choreography by Maina Gielgud, after Jean Coralli and Jules Perrot. The stellar creative team again includes the powerhouse duo of Designer Peter Cazalet for Décor, assisted by Michael Mitchell, and Costume Design and Lighting Design by Wilhelm Disbergen. “We are honoured to be presenting Maina Gielgud’s production of this wonderful, timeless classic,” says Debbie Turner, CEO of Cape Town City Ballet. “We will shortly be announcing exciting news about the international guest artists who will be joining us at select performances. Tickets are still limited due to social distancing, however, so don’t delay to book. We are also greatly looking forward to being accompanied once again by the CPO.” “In 2020, we were only able to present one performance in the entire year. In 2021, despite the continuing pandemic, we presented 60 performances. We go forward into 2022 with renewed hope to produce our four key seasons, as well as other performances throughout the year.”Ticket price breakdownGiselle will be presented at Artscape Opera House from 18 March to 9 April 2022. Performances dates run from 18 March to 9 April. Ticket costs range from R350 to R750. R750 tickets featuring performances from international guest artists and the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra and R250-R395 tickets are performances with recorded music. Tickets to the matinee performances cost from R175 to R295. Pensioners tickets can be purchased from Artscape Box Office only, at R20 discount per ticket. Block bookings (ten or more) - R10 discount per ticket through Artscape Box Office. Bookings can be made at Artscape Dial-A-Seat 021 421 7695 or through Computicket.