The CBD is fast becoming the pulsing heart of a new Joburg, a multicultural space where people work, live, and play together in a regenerated, future-focused economic hub. The new day hospital will meet the growing needs of its residents for affordable, quality healthcare services on their doorstep.The same-day hospital is poised to provide the burgeoning community with specialist services including surgeries, radiology and renal dialysis, as well as an on-site pharmacy and laboratory. Its complement of 36 day beds, three operating theatres and two floors of consulting rooms will offer patients personalized, dedicated care. Patients can choose between the hospital’s general ward, its semi-private wards or its private rooms.The Dr GM Pitje Day Hospital is the latest addition to the Clinix Health Group’s stable of eight hospitals, which serve high-density communities across South Africa. Patients will benefit from Clinix’s network of about 280 specialists and other healthcare professionals who use the facilities to provide quality clinical care.The Dr GM Pitje Day Hospital will offer the following services: Audiology Ear, nose and throat surgery Dentistry Dermatology General elective surgery General practitioners Gynaecology In-house Pharmacy Maxillofacial surgery Optometry Ophthalmology Orthopaedic Surgery Pathology Laboratories Physiotherapy Paediatrics Renal Dialysis RadiologyClinix Health Group began operating 30 years ago, with the vision of levelling the playing fields in the healthcare sector. It grew out of a company established back in 1985, Kwacha, which aimed to provide decent healthcare to the disadvantaged black community.“For 30 years Clinix Group has been striving to identify opportunities and meaningful ways to pay tribute to one of our founders, Dr GM Pitje - so it is a great honour to finally have a hospital named after him” says Dr KOP Matseke, CEO of Clinix Health Group. He was a Community Leader, a Businessman but also an influential father figure. He was my Father’s best friend, growing up and I don’t remember an important occasion at home, and he wasn’t there. To me he was very special.”Dr Pitje was an astute businessman and legal expert who applied his ethos of excellence across disciplines and strove alongside his fellow founders to ensure access to quality healthcare for historically underprivileged communities. The new day facility is a fitting memorial to a remarkable man, and a remarkable ideal.Launch detailsDate: 23 February 2022Time: 12-3pmVenue: DR G.M. Pitfe Day Hospital, 56 Von Wielligh Street, Johannesburg