Kathryn WilliamsKnown internationally as the ‘go-to financial and business guru, and finance director gun for hire’, Kathryn has been working in marketing and communications for more than 30 years. Through consulting, mentoring, workshops, books and keynotes, she seeks to inspire creative decision makers, teams and individuals to think and act differently when approaching financial management of creative output.On 29 July at the 2022 Nedbank IMC, Kathryn’s entertaining and innovative approach to finance in creative industries will offer a mix of insight, advice and practical tools in a topic entitled, ‘How much are your ideas really worth? The relevance of return of investment, revenue and your internet protocol’.‘While marketers and creatives rely on a combination of their persuasive powers and internal metrics to show the benefit of planned campaigns,’ explains Kathryn, ‘there are challenges when having to place a reliable financial value to the creative work.’With a conference theme of ‘Relevance. Unpacked and interrogated’, Kathryn’s contribution to the 2022 Nedbank IMC is on the money. Nedbank IMC chief executive officer, Dale Hefer, says Kathryn has a depth of expertise in an area that is often not interrogated deeply enough. ‘At this year’s conference we’ll be getting down to the nuts and bolts of our discipline, and Kathryn is one of those sterling speakers that will show us how.’As a taster of what’s in store, the Nedbank IMC, in partnership with Kathryn’s consulting firm, KMint, will offer a discount coupon (IMC2022KMintIgnition) to the first webinar of her 2022 webinar series. On Friday, 25 February 2022, the webinar will cover asset creation and revenue generation, and will explore topics such as buyer psychology and outcomes-based compensation models. To find out more about the webinar, go to kmint.com.au/2022-kmint-webinars/.The virtual Nedbank IMC 2022 tickets at R1,999 (excl VAT)Group discounts are available.Book now at imcconference.com.Nedbank IMC 2022 bursaries are available at imcconference.com/imc-bursaries/.About the Nedbank IMCIn 2021 a total of 1,300 delegates from 14 countries around the world watched the live virtual conference. Since its launch in 2019, the Nedbank IMC has become known for its no sales-pitch, one stream, one-day format and galaxy of renowned and specialist speakers. Importantly, the conference is committed to presenting the business case for marketing, driven through the determination to secure marketing’s seat at the boardroom table.The Nedbank IMC is presented in association with the Marketing Association of South Africa (MASA), with chartered marketers receiving Continuous Professional Development Points (CPD) for attending. The conference is endorsed by the Interactive Advertising Bureau of South Africa.