Source: www.unsplash.comThis year’s inductees are: Marc Pritchard, chief brand officer, Procter & Gamble,Ann Mukherjee, chairman and CEO, Pernod Ricard North America,Bozoma Saint John, Global chief marketing officer, Netflix,Antonio Lucio, former CMO at Facebook, Visa and HP.These extraordinary marketing innovators will be celebrated at the 2022 Marketing Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony on 3 May 2022 in New York City. Each inductee will give a brief presentation inspired by their careers and will offer their views on the future of marketing. Tickets are available here.  The Marketing Hall of Fame was established by the AMA New York as the only award of its kind to celebrate brilliance in marketing across all disciplines and industries. A rigorously democratic process is used each year to elect leaders who are making outstanding contributions to marketing and inspiring a new generation of marketers. 2021 SA Smarties Awards winners turn lemons into lemonade16 hours agoThe Marketing Hall of Fame aims to evolve to reflect our changing world. It includes exceptionally diverse segments of the marketing community in the nomination, voting and selection of inductees. Selection criteria look at how marketers impact business results, raise the profile of the profession, move marketing forward through breakthrough approaches, promote sustainability, and spearhead diversity, equity and inclusion. “The Marketing Hall of Fame is back, renewed and refreshed,” says Joanna Seddon, Marketing Hall of Fame co-chair and founder. “We are thrilled to honour such a truly outstanding set of marketing innovators.” The selection process began last September with an open call for nominations, drawing in over 300 nominees. AMA New York’s Marketing Hall of Fame Committee evaluated the nominations against the selection criteria and developed a shortlist of the 50 highest-qualified nominees. A final Panel of Judges, made up of past inductees and top executives from the leading marketing associations and organisations, then selected the four 2022 inductees. “After two years since our last live ceremony as a result of Covid precautions, we are back with a roar this year with four stellar inductees and a focus on diversity and inclusion,” said Robert Kahn, Marketing Hall of Fame committee co-chair.  #LunchtimeMarketing: Does your leadership style influence your marketing?17 Feb 2022Architects of marketing transformation already inducted into the Marketing Hall of Fame include academic and author David Aaker, former Facebook CMO Gary Briggs, Patagonia founder Yvon Chouinard, Dentsu International global CEO Wendy Clark, TBWA\Worldwide chair Lee Clow, GE vice chair Beth Comstock, author and speaker Seth Godin, R/GA founder Bob Greenberg, former American Express CMO John Hayes, former IBM SVP Jon Iwata, author and professor Philip Kotler, Ogilvy & Mather chairman emeritus Shelly Lazarus, MetLife EVP, global chief marketing officer Esther Lee, Adobe CMO Ann Lewnes, strategist and author Al Ries, former P&G global marketing officer Jim Stengel, former Coca-Cola and Subway global CMO Joseph V Tripodi, Wharton professor and author Jerry Wind, former Unilever Global CMO Keith Weed, and in the early years of the programme, Steve Jobs accepted the award on behalf of Apple.