One for the advertising campaign ‘Let’s make new stories again’ for KFC and the second for Carling Black Label’s ‘Bride Armour’ campaign. The KFC campaign marked the 50th anniversary of the brand in South Africa. In celebration of this milestone, the work encourages South Africans to shake off the lockdown blues, and to start doing the things they love again. The spot titled “SHHH!” takes viewers on an emotional rollercoaster, starting with beautifully captured shots showing everyday South Africans who have been robbed of their stories by the pandemic. The sullen yet beautifully observational opening scenes are brilliantly juxtaposed by a sudden change in grade, camera language and energy midway through – bringing together a story which reminds us that soon, we’ll be able to make new stories again. And when we do, we’ll be sharing them just like we have been over the last 50 years. Kabelo Moshapalo, Ogilvy CCO, comments: “Shhhhh is a beautifully crafted piece of brand storytelling that inspires hope and pushes play on the many stories that were put on hold during the past year of uncertainty. It’s big. It’s thematic. With gems in every frame and every shot. I am proud of the great teamwork and collaboration that it took to bring this story to life. And at the heart of it, our favourite chicken is still here for us today, just like it has been for the past 50 years. To top it all off, no celebration is complete without a big booming track keeping pace with the making and sharing of stories once more.” Suhayl Limbada, marketing director KFC South Africa, adds: “As a brand, we knew we had a once in a lifetime opportunity to celebrate our Golden Anniversary and what better way to celebrate than by making South Africa feel good after such a tough period in all our lives. We love that our agency, Ogilvy, took that brief to heart and made a magical feel-good piece in collaboration with Zee and his crew. It sums up how our brand shows up daily for all South Africans - as an authentic, generous brand that makes people feel good consistently." Watch the work here:The second first-place award was for Carling Black Label’s ‘Bride Armour’. The continuation of the brand’s long-term stance on Gender Based Violence, under the banner of #NoExcuse. The campaign sheds light on the horrifying fact that women in our country increase their chances of being attacked violently after getting married. To highlight this reality, a unique wedding dress was designed by famed fashion designer, Suzaan Heyns. The design and materials of the dress are influenced directly from telephone conversations between GBV victims and Lifeline’s 24-hour emergency call centre. Using data from these violent attacks, the dress was designed from protective materials such as Kevlar, cast liquid and tulle, to form armour - underlining the statement that men need to put an end to this violence. Camilla Clerke, Ogilvy ECD, comments: “It’s heartwarming to see the passion and message of this campaign being rewarded. Especially due to the importance of the issues we’ve been raising with the work. It takes a brave client to embrace this type of thinking and we are grateful that our close relationship with AB InBev, and their commitment to helping end GBV in this country, allowed us to produce the work. We called this the dress that we wish we didn’t need to make.” Vaughan Croeser, marketing director of AB InBev South Africa, adds: “Given the size and influence that our brands have, I believe we have the responsibility to create work that positively impacts societal norms. Carling Black Label’s Bride Armour campaign is a great testament to that commitment.” Watch the work here: Pete Case, Ogilvy CEO and creative chairman, ends: “It’s rewarding to see our teams making such iconic work for some of our biggest clients. Hugely contrasting in content and message, but both creating large and important impact for our different brands. Thanks to the Creative Circle judging panel for recognising the strength of this work.” The Creative Circle is a non-profit organisation that believes in promoting creativity as a business resource, maintaining high levels of creativity in South African advertising, and providing input into industry bodies. It aims to inspire the transformation of product, people, and perception through the power of creativity.