Source: PixabayLast year saw a steeper increase in crypto donations along with the expanding segment of token holders wanting to associate with charitable giving when managing their digital assets.Vision Group Finance co-founders Juan, Jacques, and Eugene Olivier, established a cryptocurrency coin to encourage token buyers to scale their investments and support small businesses and non-profits at the same time. With just over 1,000 non-profits globally accepting crypto donations, the organisation saw the potential to urge more South African charities and small businesses to consider crypto donations as a new avenue to receiving funds.Backing small businesses invested in AIIn 2021, the Olivier brothers launched Muskcoin Crypto to offer a digital currency that would leverage blockchain technology and help make a positive difference for token holders, start-ups, and NGOs alike. “Muskcoin Crypto seeks to cultivate the scaling of new small businesses, especially those invested in renewable energy, innovation and research, science, engineering, and the development of artificial intelligence,” says Juan. Partnering with registered SMEs, as well as donations to non-profits in and beyond South Africa will be fundamental to Muskcoin Crypto’s pay-it-forward approach.“Since we were kids, my brothers and I have been fascinated by business investments,” adds Juan. "At the age of 74, our late father took a keen interest in investments. His retirement dream was to explore the crypto market. He inspired us to launch Muskcoin Crypto and enable people to take ownership of their futures and, in turn, make a positive impact.”Crypto as a crowdfunding tool“Crypto donations have to be managed carefully and with transparency to ensure its credibility,” adds Jacques. “We aim to help start-ups discover the benefits of crypto as well as show non-profits the value of using crypto as a crowdfunding tool.“The big win for us will be solidifying our connection with the Musk Foundation,” adds Jacques. “Being a new coin in the market puts us in the position to earn potential and existing token holders’ trust and ensure them we’re in it for the long run. We will be partnering with smart contract auditors to ensure the integrity of the code and KYC (Know Your Customer) compliance policies.”“Crypto is undeniably and gradually becoming a more prominent area of interest in reputable networks,” adds Jacques. “It’s only a matter of time before it becomes ‘second nature investments’ for those wanting to diversify their portfolio further. Limited education and familiarity with different coins, digital platforms, blockchain technology, and smart contracts are mere barriers to larger-scale adoption. "Today, there are more than 300 million token holders in the world. South Africa is quickly climbing the ranks of global token holders. Muskcoin Crypto is our effort to open South Africa to the crypto-currency world.”1 billion market cap targetMuskcoin Crypto offers token holders the advantages of potential growth, receiving bonus coin allocations, profit share, and new token distributions. Within six months of launching, Muskcoin Crypto was listed on both Pancakeswap, and Tokpie Crypto-currency exchange expanded its community of coin holders and assembled an experienced team committed to the company’s long-term vision. “Our goal is to reach the 1 billion market cap, impact the lives of our token holders and change the narrative for struggling start-ups and communities,” says Eugene.