Responding to international customers can be difficult if you do not have proactive customer support or service strategies in place. This can cost you unhappy customers, a negative brand image, and a huge loss of potential sales. Here are the 6 best ways to discuss in real-time or without too many delays: 1. Community forums for online discussionsA business's community forum can offer 24/7 customer support by allowing customers to help each other with their personal experiences. An online forum, in a way, acts as a 24/7 help desk, with the only difference being – instead of agents, customers help each other out. In case a customer's query stays unanswered for long, your customer support team can jump in and offer help. Once an answer is posted, it can help thousands of others who are facing a similar issue. For instance, Electronic Arts (EA), an American video game company, offers a robust online community that has over 29 million users from across the globe. Gamers can post queries, share answers, talk about what's trending, and get quick updates about games. Here.2. Using AI-enabled conversational chatbots Chatbots are the talk of the town!AI-enabled conversational chatbots learn through interactions and can thereby offer very humane interactions to your site visitors and customers. They help you bring a sense of empathy and a personal touch to your digital conversation.For instance, chatbots can address repeating customers with their names. They can give them a tailored experience by showing them products of their interest and can also offer special discounts in accordance with how loyal a customer is. They can also be their online personal shopping assistant, amongst other things.  Here is an example of Tommy Hilfiger's chatbot integrated with Facebook Messenger. Image Source: https://images.app.goo.gl/yFms7f3bAqLzTyXq9Chatbots can offer answers to frequently asked questions and create a ticket for complex queries that need an agent's help.3. Integrating a help desk software A help desk software is the most effective piece of technology you can have to respond to your international customers in real-time.According to Forrester, 66% of customers say that valuing their time is the most important thing a company can do to provide good service. Customers need quick first response time (FRT); that is to say, they want their queries to be responded to quickly. It doesn't matter if the solutions aren't in their favour.Queries or problems asked by customers through email, chatbot, etc., are immediately converted into a service ticket, ready for the help desk team to respond to it as soon as possible. This reduces the FRT to the minimum. Moreover, help desk software can also route tickets contextually -- i.e., route-specific queries to specific agents.4. Have a knowledge-base software in place A comprehensive list of Frequently Asked Questions on your website is unparalleled when it comes to offering quick help to customers without needing a live agent. And you can leverage this power of knowledge base with technology.Knowledge-base software helps you collate all your curated content sprawled across the internet, social media, emails, etc. and brings them all to one place for you to use. Moreover, it can integrate with chatbots and live chat software helping agents send articles and even quickly modify them before sending them to the visitor or a customer. This massively increases credibility and trust and drives more sales round the clock. 5. Investing In a Live Chat SoftwareSometimes the customers don't want to be treated like a ticket, and they don't want to have to call a contact centre, nor do they want to go through the FAQs themselves either. They quickly want to chat with someone from the business to assist them; this is where live chat software comes. Live chatting is one of the most preferred modes of communication of customers to brands these days. A live chat software easily integrates with Facebook Messenger, Whatsapp, Knowledge-base, and more, to allow better communication between the agent and a customer. 6. Outsource To An International Call CentreIf you are still not sold on the power of technology to cater to your customers, or your business demands are special, consider outsourcing. Partnering with an international call centre company is one of the common ways businesses offer 24/7 support to their international clients. Outsource your customer support and service needs to a country that is within the same time zone where most of your international customers are located.Moreover, these services, along with the setup overheads and technical costs, are cheaper overseas if you are operating from the US. However, handling a remote team is often a challenge. You would need to offer thorough training and touch base regularly with your agents to ensure that they are following your company's best practices. Here are some helpful tips for starters.Final WordsOverall leveraging the power of technology by investing in help desk software, live chat, knowledge-base, and chatbots can help you cater to your customers in the least FTR, offering the best customer experience that would result in greater ROIs and CLV.