For instance, although we can get into the car or on an airplane to go to a meeting, the norm of hopping onto a quick Zoom call is still widely accepted. Besides being a lot cheaper, this type of video conferencing brings people together who wouldn’t have had the chance to meet otherwise. The same is true for digital marketing.Although people are becoming increasingly comfortable with visiting the mall, it is still essential for shops (and actually any business) to have a strong online presence. In fact, many start-ups are capitalising on people’s preference for online shopping and are going ahead and establishing shops exclusively online as opposed to going to the expense of setting up a bricks-and-mortar store in a local shopping centre.This means that digital marketing is here to stay as a way of bringing customers to these retail concerns.So, which digital marketing tactics should we be concentrating on this year?Lisa Schneider, managing director of the Digital School of Marketing, says: “The importance of SEO grows year upon year – and 2022 is no different. The response to any question that you don’t know the answer to is ‘Just Google it’. So, if you’re not online, or your website isn’t properly optimised, when people are ‘just Googling’ for a service like yours, you’ll be missing out on a fortune of new customers.”Another digital marketing trend which is growing in significance with each passing year is content marketing and it goes hand in hand with SEO. Says Schneider: “Think about it this way, the more content that you have on your website, which talks about topics that are around your services, the more opportunity you have to be picked up in people’s queries.”“So if you’re looking to make any investment in skills this year,” concludes Schneider, “I would recommend that you seriously look at SEO and content marketing. These are going to play a big part in the success of your business and a good understanding of these will produce massive ROI for your business.”  The Digital School of Marketing is an online provider of accredited online digital marketing education which is accredited by the MICT Seta. Armed with a qualification from DSM, you’ll have the core skills needed to future-proof your marketing and succeed in the corporate world of digital marketing and advertising. To find out more, visit our website on www.digitalschoolofmarketing.co.za. Call us on 0861 428 710 or e-mail: az.oc.gnitekramfoloohcslatigid@ofni. Join the conversations:Instagram | Facebook | Twitter