It’s not just his strategy credentials that won Mtati the job; an early proponent of social media, YouTube and TEDx, he has been focused on digital marketing since 2008. He has built a global reputation for his entrepreneurial approach that has seen him share a stage with Richard Branson and create the WordStart boutique digital marketing agency. He was also part of the team that worked on Brand South Africa in the lead up to the 2010 World Cup. As a skilled and experienced strategist, Mtati says he was attracted to the fact that Rogerwilco is an active innovator, creating tools such as the multi-award-winning WOLF competitive visibility tool that pinpoints the competitive landscape for clients. He will also take responsibility for Rogerwilco’s annual Township Marketing Report, produced for the first time last year in collaboration with Survey54 and Marketing Mix Conferences. It sits alongside the agency’s South African Customer Experience Report. With between 50 and 60% of South Africa's urban population living in townships and informal settlements, marketers had little insight on how to address them until Rogerwilco produced its Township Marketing Report. Mtati says he looks forward to working on this game-changing initiative in South African marketing. "It provides actionable insights and I’m very excited that I get to take it on, especially as it fits with my interest in using data for audience engagement." Mtati is a proactive thought leader and contributes regularly to news outlets, including consumer media titles like Daily Maverick, Entrepreneur and the now-defunct Huffington Post, and industry channels Bizcommunity and Marklives. He also hosts The Lead Creative podcast which focuses on the creative, marketing, and communication industries. Multi award-winning Rogerwilco’s latest awards include FM AdFocus’s Small Agency of the Year in 2020 and Digital Agency of the Year in 2021. The agency is growing rapidly and currently recruiting for junior, mid- and senior-level roles.