1. Dairy-free and plant-based alternativesDairy-free plant-based alternative beverages form a growing niche that continues to take a share from traditional dairy beverages. Although dairy alternatives were developed for vegans, the market now targets a broader range of consumers including flexitarians and omnivores who are concerned about their health, animal welfare, and climate change.2. The next wave of “better-for-you” beverages“Better-for-you” beverages feature clean labels, natural ingredients, less sugar, fewer calories, and caffeine alternatives. Products with these qualities have been in high demand, and the pandemic only heightened people’s focus on wellness, immunity, and stress reduction.3. Sugar reductionMore consumers are working to reduce their sugar intake, driving beverage makers to release new, reduced- or no-sugar varieties. Soda, juice, energy drinks, and RTD tea manufacturers have all jumped on the bandwagon. 4. Hybrid beveragesNew products that blend the best qualities of different drinks blur the lines between product categories is another growing trend. For example, energy drinks increasingly include electrolytes and advertise hydration, while sports drinks contain caffeine and other stimulants. Sparkling waters may contain caffeine from tea and flavour from a juice.5. CBD beveragesCBD is another ingredient to watch. In South Africa, the floodgates opened in 2019 when access was granted for certain non-prescription cannabidiol (CBD) products. Further amendments were undertaken in 2020, making CBD a legal product in the country. Distell is one drinks manufacturer that’s been eyeing this market. “The cannabis sector is still in its infancy and primed for growth as legislation to control and legalise certain aspects of usage is developed,” says Distell’s CEO Richard Rushton.6. More sustainable packagingWhile beverage trends are often driven by what's inside a drink, the packaging is another critical element that is increasingly top of mind.According to Packaged Facts, single-use plastic packaging continues to be the leading concern and challenge for beverage manufacturers, and many global beverage companies have pledged to phase in bottles made from recyclable, compostable, and biodegradable materials as soon as possible. Tell consumers what they want to knowBuilding lasting relationships with consumers and earning their loyalty has never been more important for brand owners than it is in today’s increasingly competitive retail environment. And, what motivates consumers to buy or to be loyal to a brand is even more important than ever. As the number of touch-points between a brand and the consumer increases, messaging needs to connect with what motivates consumers.A label big enough to connect with consumersFix-a-Form® booklet labels, available from Pyrotec PackMedia, already increase brand connection with their enhanced graphics and ability to communicate with consumers in several languages simultaneously. They’re ideal for sharing information about new product formulations, health benefits, and environmental messaging. Importantly, booklet labels also enable brand owners to multiply the area used for communication on their packaging several times over, providing unlimited potential for the brand to connect with consumers, reduce costs and waste, and increase efficiencies and sales.