InImage Ads, a first of its kind AI software, complements both of these factors perfectly. Scrolling through a website or social media platform and being constantly bombarded by pop up ads, banner ads and endless ‘click here!’s is everyone’s worst nightmare. But, if advertisers market their businesses in a less confrontational fashion and blend ads with content feed flawlessly, ad tolerance and engagement is proven to increase.InImage Ads has identified the opportunity to partner the image-centric nature of the web and social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram, with relevant and captivating display ad experiences that are less invasive. So how does it work?In-image AI advertising uses data about the editorial image, its tags, and the surrounding content to match images with contextually relevant ads. It solves a host of challenges for advertisers, publishers, and customers and best of all, it is purely contextual targeting and does not require cookies.As with other types of digital advertising, in-image ads are measurable, so you always know the impression count, engagement rates, and revenue generated. According to contextual insider research, in-image ads achieve an average of 100% viewability rate and deliver seven times more engagement than traditional display options. So how are In-image ads transforming the online marketplace and digital user experience for everyone? For the advertisersIn-image advertising ensures that users see their ads. Eye-tracking studies have shown that users focus more energy and attention on images than anything else, and today’s digitally savvy customer has learned how to tune out ads. By bringing the ads into image content, an advertiser can trust they will be seen because those images are the most captivating part of the site, to begin with. Find out more from this sunscreen contextual live case study gallery by VOX in Poland.For the publishersPutting ads within images can help build a relationship of trust with customers. People are growing increasingly frustrated over what they perceive to be obnoxious ads that are interrupting their customer experience. In-image ads don’t disrupt the content and user experience, they complement it. By putting a small, aesthetically pleasing and contextually relevant ad within an image, publishers can provide a seamless advertising experience that will show customers that they are trying to add value to the customer’s experience, not take away from it. In-image ads also help publishers create an entirely new revenue channel without disrupting the content layout or user experience of their website. For the customersFrom a user standpoint, a perfect world is one without digital ads. In-image ads allow for publishers to get as close to that experience as possible by weaving the ads into the content in a way that allows for a truly native experience. At the same time, these ads aren’t trying to trick users into thinking they are purely content, a practice that has frustrated users for some time. Publishers won’t need to have ads encroaching on content to the point of choking the flow of their site, and customers will be able to browse their favourite sites without feeling like they are walking down a narrow street with salesmen on either side pitching their wares.In ConclusionInImage Ads’ AI software strikes the perfect balance for advertisers, publishers and customers, and has transformed the way we advertise and shop online without sacrificing the quality of content and user experience.About North MediaMedia North in partnership with VOX exchange.io brought InImage Ads to South Africa as a first of its kind AI software. Publishers who are ready to be at the forefront of innovation and technology whilst earning additional revenue can contact az.oc.htronaidem@ofni and advertisers can contact az.oc.htronaidem@xam for InImage advertising campaigns.www.medianorth.co.za