Source: Supplied: Sunshine Cinema has been developing and distributing films for over a decade and much of that has been spent finding new and innovative ways of reaching audiences and activating communities through film.As documentaries and impact films go mainstream, new roles are emerging for purpose driven marketers.Impact filmmaking is a growing genre with powerful networks like Netflix looking to feed a mainstream audience’s hunger for sense and insight in a chaotic post-truth world. But as big brands reach for authenticity and purpose, the role is also being extended into the marketing space where storytelling needs a facilitated plan and personal connection to reach the right eyes and ears and inspire actionThe impact facilitator works closely with an impact producer, whose role is to ensure the film’s message and call to action hit home during the creation of the film but who is also responsible for distribution negotiations and usage rights. Says Sunshine Cinema’s Sydelle Willow Smith, “The impact facilitator has been that missing piece of the puzzle in film distribution for a while now, but it is finally emerging as a role and the demand for them is growing. “When you create work that has a purpose and a call to action, it has to be activated, you can’t just make it and put it out for enjoyment, it needs to spark change or action.”A need for more feet on the ground Seeing the need for ‘more feet on the ground’ Sunshine Cinema has partnered with UCT’s Centre for Film and Media Studies to create the Screening Impact Facilitation short course, a part-time and online course that takes students through an impact facilitators tool kit to be able to activate communities through film. Featuring Sunshine Cinema co-founders Sydelle Willow-Smith and Rowan Pybus as lecturers, it also has guest lectures from Miner Shot Down producer Anita Khanna, filmmaker Dylan Valley, South African storyteller Gcina Mhlope, Judy Kibinge, who founded East African funding and distribution agency Docubox, impact producer and film maker Miki Redlinghuys and others. The course is convened by Dr Liana Maasdorp. “After two years of armchair activism, it’s time to get out and spark some action,” says Smith. “We’re excited to be training this new wave of changemakers and we hope to see some ripple effects from their impact.” Sunshine Cinema has been developing and distributing films for over a decade and much of that has been spent finding new and innovative ways of reaching audiences and activating communities through film. Find out more about the course  here. Applications for the June-December 2022 course close on 18 March.