Eduvos offers a range of qualifications to choose from, with 27 degrees in the faculties of Applied Science, Commerce & Law, Humanities & Arts, and Information Technology and postgraduate options in honours. If you did not achieve the minimum entrance requirements for your desired degree option, Eduvos offers higher certificates that would give you the necessary pathway into your desired degree.How can I register?First you need to apply. You can do this online or you can visit any of our 12 campuses across South Africa. The application fee is R300 to secure your seat with Eduvos.After applying, you can complete your registration at any of our campuses or contact one of our Higher Education Consultants (HEC) to assist with online enrolment. The sooner you register, the better your chance of securing your space for the qualification you would like to study.Our Eduvos campuses are open Monday to Thursday 8am to 4.30pm, Fridays 8am to 4pm and selected Saturdays 8am to 1pm. Please contact your closest campus to confirm. Prefer to register on campus?We’d love to welcome you! Here is what you need to bring:Copy of secondary schooling results (e.g., NSC, IEB, GED)Copy of student ID or passportAdditional documents: If you have non-South African school leaving results:A SAQA certificate with NQF level 4 (to enrol for higher certificate, pre-degree) or with NQF level 7 for honours degree A USAF letter of exemption or certificate (to enrol for degree studies)Additional documents: International students (excluding permanent resident and refugees/asylum seekers, considering relevant Covid-19 regulations, these requirements may be amended):Confirmation of membership from a registered medical aid scheme in South Africa for a duration of 12 months Valid study visa under the name of EduvosCertified copies of the above are required by no later than 15 February 2022; however, students are encouraged to return the certified copies as soon as possible to avoid delays.What about tuition fees?Each programme has a list of fees that are applicable to that programme. See our 2022 fee schedule here, with fees starting at R38,000.Eduvos offers you three cash payment options of either*:Upfront fee for the full year10-month payment option30% deposit + 10-month payment option*for our Information Systems higher certificates, a 12-month payment option is available. Please note: First monthly instalments or upfront payments should be made by 21 February 2022. If you require assistance with alternative funding, please access our funding page. Learn more about Edvuos at: eduvos.com.