To win a Smarties Award is an outward sign of mobile marketing expertise, mastery of the medium and the ability to drive results. Winners are chosen by some of the best marketing minds across the globe. With over 20 years of international experience, Bluegrass Digital designed and developed a new Instagram-style mobile app to provide Bio-Oil distributors across 154 countries the ability to access brand content, news and information to support their marketing and sales initiatives. The new B2B marketing app enables the Union Swiss team to communicate with and share information with its distributors, but it also creates a sense of community among distributors by giving them a platform to show what they are doing in their respective markets. Bluegrass Digital CEO Nick Durrant is overwhelmed by this accolade: "This is an annual competition that honours outstanding innovation and creativity, resulting in significant business impact." "We worked closely with Union Swiss team members to address the key challenges and ensure the solution successfully met the key objectives. Together, we have developed a robust mobile app that encompasses and successfully portrays the professionalism and styling of the Union Swiss-owned Bio-Oil brand," he explains. A Smarties Award winner has demonstrated power over the medium, effectively weaving together a great idea, compelling creative and air-tight execution, to deliver significant business impact. "We certainly recognise the challenge of balancing high quality app development with the growing needs of modern businesses. We build applications and experiences using the latest technologies and platforms, provide game changing software engineering, app development, and other critical development services," he adds. "Our main objective was to build a Bio-Oil community, to seamlessly connect everyone in a more contemporary, real-time way, which wouldn’t have been possible using more traditional communication. Whether it’s a web app, mobile app or custom solution development, we know exactly how to set your company apart from the competition," he concludes.