Source: Supplied1. Comfort is king“Your bedroom is your sanctuary – where you sleep, dream, prepare for your day and enjoy privacy and peace,” says Jason Wells, brand and marketing manager at PG Bison. “Covid-19 saw people spending more time at home and rewired the way we thought about our spaces, from creating home workspaces (or homework areas for children) to investing in more comfortable beds. One of the trends that came out of this and is expected to continue into 2022 is designing for comfort.”In the bedroom, this translates into luxurious textiles and bedding, plush pillows and comforting accessories, such as scented candles, photos of loved ones, and favourite, beloved objects. Supersized headboards are also on trend, whether they are panelled, upholstered or even painted onto the wall.Source: Supplied2. Biophilic designBiophilia is about embracing nature and bringing elements of it indoors, whether through use of natural materials or nature-inspired designs, incorporating plant life, maximising natural light, or embracing natural ventilation. It has been a trend in architecture and interior design over the past few years and continues to grow.Wells says that in bedrooms, this is reflected in lighting, colour palettes (greens, browns and autumnal colours), artwork choice, incorporating house plants, and design inspired by natural forms. “Curved shapes that emulate nature and fractal patterns are very on trend currently, and we’re seeing many people opting for natural-look materials, as well as embracing botanicals and botanically-inspired colours,” he says.A fractal pattern is where a shape is repeated over and over, at different scales. As Science World explains, “The repetition that occurs in a fractal is called ‘self-similarity’. Another way to think of this is when you zoom in on a small part of a fractal pattern, it looks just like the whole thing.”Examples in nature include fern leaves, Romanesco broccoli heads, ice crystals and peacock feathers.Source: Supplied3. PersonalisationWhile designers tend to advise that spaces like bathrooms and kitchens should be kept fairly neutral, a bedroom is a more personal space, where there’s room to show personality and experiment with design.People are experimenting with bold patterns, colours, textures and wallpapers. A survey from The Company Store on 2022’s trends found that a quarter of respondents under 40 were choosing bold patterns for their bedrooms.Wells says there’s a continuing growth in DIY design and 2022 is likely to see more people experimenting with stencils, wallpaper, decals, paint effects and changing up their soft furnishings as they enjoy the opportunity to make their space their own.Mix-and-match furniture (instead of one matching bedroom suite) and patterns is another trend to embrace as a way to let your personality shine through.“Mixing colours and designs in cabinetry also remains trendy,” says Wells. “For example, we’re seeing designers opting for a neutral or pastel colour and accenting it with a wood-grain or stone-finish design, as well as mixing matt, peen and gloss finishes.”Source: Supplied4. Multifunctional furnitureCovid-19 saw a huge uptick in multifunctional spaces and furniture as more people were working from home. This trend continues in 2022. In the bedroom, it might mean including a desk / vanity / dressing area with plug points for chargers and a desk lamp (whether in your own bedroom or in your guest room). This can be used for both working and getting ready. Invest in quality cabinetry for adequate storage so that work clutter or your accessories can be packed away neatly after use.Source: Supplied5. PanellingTapping into the trend towards luxury and personalisation is the trend towards panelled walls and cabinets. This modern update on a nostalgic look is being used on walls, in lieu of headboards, and on cupboards.Wells says that panelling adds a sense of luxury to a room and can range from a subtle design feature to an eye-catching statement feature. “We’re seeing panelling used as a decorative feature in bedrooms, living areas and even offices,” he says. “Some people are opting for a traditional look, like board and batten MDF panels on walls or vertical slats, and others have completely modernised the idea, using geometric shapes or asymmetrical designs.”With boards now available in such realistic designs, homeowners and interior designers are able to select panelling options in matching, contrasting or natural material finishes, such as wood grains or even aged metal.Source: Supplied6. Conscious consumption“Consumers are becoming more aware of how their purchasing decisions may affect everything from their carbon footprint to the local economy and are adapting their buying behaviour accordingly,” says Wells. “There’s a move to supporting local designers and manufacturers and to more mindful design that takes into account ideas of long-term sustainability.”This is reflected in a revival in the market for vintage or second-hand furniture, handmade décor and crafts, DIY products and locally sourced and manufactured raw materials.