Ziyanda Ngcaba will take the helm at Rapid Blue from the 1 April 2022Ziyanda Ngcaba joined Rapid Blue in 2020 as executive producer and business director, stepping up as managing director in April 2021. Since becoming managing director, Ngcaba has worked closely with Irvine to build Rapid Blue’s extensive slate. During her time in this role, Rapid Blue has produced the seventh season of SAFTA award-winning production, Come Dine With Me South Africa and new 10-part original series, Homegrown Tastes South Africa which follows South African award-winning chef and TV personality Lorna Maseko on a journey to discover South Africa’s homegrown cuisine, for BBC Lifestyle, plus, the third season of the smash hit Celebrity Game Night for E! and a second season of Family Feud SA hosted by Steve Harvey for e.tv. The year has also seen Rapid Blue facilitate the Nigeria shoots for Warner Brothers’ Bob Hearts Abishola which has been renewed for a 4th season in the US and produce the second season of Africa’s Business Heroes, the Jack Ma Foundation's flagship philanthropic program in Africa to support entrepreneurs. With his stellar track record in television, Irvine is looking forward to using his expertise in a new venture, providing services to brands, broadcasters and production companies alike, in the areas of content development, packaging and funding solutions.Commenting on her expanded portfolio, Ngcaba said “I am hugely honoured to take the helm and steer this ship. I look forward to carrying ahead Duncan and Kee-Leen’s values, creative ambition and passion for quality entertainment. With the company producing a series of brilliant shows, we are eager to continue to grow Rapid Blue productions and I am confident in the future. We have a strong creative team, with a combined experience of over 100 years in the industry, who are vital in the future success of the company. We will  continue to create brilliant projects which I can’t wait for audiences in South Africa and around the world to see.”Duncan former CEO and co-founder of Rapid Blue said, “I am thrilled that Ziyanda will be heading up Rapid Blue. With her wealth of expertise in the business of television, drive and creativity, I know we will see the company thrive. After almost 30 years leading Rapid Blue, I’m immensely proud of the team that we have built and I have no doubt that the future will be bright. I am grateful to be able to continue to offer my support in new ways by developing fresh content solutions through alternative funding models. Ziyanda has stepped into the managing director role seamlessly over the last year, I am confident that our vision will be carried forward under her leadership with the support of the best team in the industry.”