The Youth And Women Business In Tech (Yawbit) programme is a 18 months’ survival to recovery entrepreneurial programme which started in 2021. The programme supports technology businesses that suffered the impact of Covid-19. We provide technology businesses with necessary tools and knowledge in order to sustain their operations, workforce and eventually grow their revenues through targeted market linkages.Yawbit programme has managed to increase the average revenues of programme participants by 64.46%. This is through the targeted training, coaching, financial support and market linkages afforded to entrepreneurs from the 2021 Cohort.Reviews from a business that benefited through the programme:“Wow, words can’t even describe the transformation that our business has incurred ever since joining the Yawbit program. We have incurred a tremendous amount of growth. We have gained so much valuable information and insight. As someone who has been apart of different business development programs, this is by FAAAAAAR the most practical and effective way to grow your business. Everything we do reflects in how we work as a business, with great insight on how to further develop and grow as a business. We have an AMAZING mentor who constantly pushes us to take things to the next level. This is the best program! Honestly, this is really an amazing opportunity and I am truly thankful to be apart of it.” – Mamello Mofokeng | Saturated Africa | https://saturated.africaThe exciting news, is that all the entrepreneurs within the supported sectors can also receive the support Mamello and her company have received. The programme is currently recruiting for the 3rd cohort and calls all businesses that are: Mobile and app developers  IT support and maintenance Graphic designers Social media marketers Software developers Internet cafes NetworkingAll businesses that are operational and looking for innovative ways to grow their businesses can apply. To apply, visit the link https://forms.gle/426yE4AP44zMnvX96 or apply on the website www.yawbit.co.zaIssued by TechnoServe www.technoserve.org.za implementing partner of the Youth and Woman Business in Tech programme