Contested Bodies concludes the Abrahamse and Meyer Summer Season, which kicked off in November 2021 with an acclaimed staging of Yukio Mishima’s The Lady Aoi and continued through February with a sold-out Tennessee Williams’ repertory of A Streetcar Named Desire and One Arm.Image supplied: Marcel Meyers, Lungile Lallie and Matthew Baldwin in Contested Bodies Almost seven years to the day after political activist, Chumani Maxwele, flung human excrement at the statue of British Imperialist Cecil John Rhodes, Abrahamse and Meyer will do some faeces flinging of their own in their latest ‘outrage for the stage’ - a thrilling, provocative entertainment that is likely to be the most controversial and contested play of the year. State Theatre presents a live Kucheza Afrika Festival 202221 hours agoContested Bodies explores themes of power, race, gender identity and masculinity (toxic and otherwise). The play centres on the relationship between the acclaimed surgeon, Doctor James Barry, his African manservant, John and the then Governor of the Cape Colony, Lord Charles Henry Somerset. Barry lived his entire adult life as a man but was named Margret Ann at birth and was known as a female in childhood. Barry’s biological sex only became widely known to the public and his colleagues after his death in 1865. In Contested Bodies, things get down and dirty in the Governor’s residence when the three men decide, as part of their evening’s entertainment, to enact a lewd and lascivious play penned by the ultimate libertine and provocateur, the salacious Marquis de Sade. The enactment of the De Sade play reveals many unspoken truths and recalibrates the men’s friendship and relationship with each other. Institute for Creative Arts brings back in-person Live Art Festival3 days agoThis volatile ‘comedy-of-very-bad-manners’ stars Matthew Baldwin as the tempestuous Doctor James Barry, Marcel Meyer as his good friend, Lord Charles Somerset, and introduces local audiences to the up-and-coming young actor, Lungile Lallie as Barry’s trusted manservant, John. Apart from being shocking and sensational, Contested Bodies promises to be a stunning, visual feast with a sumptuous scenic design by director Fred Abrahamse, detailed period costumes by Marcel Meyer and moody lighting by award-winning, Faheem Bardien. Please note Contested Bodies is strictly intended for adult audiences only and carries an 18 age restriction. The play contains scenes with strong language, nudity, violence, prejudice, and sex. Evening performances start at 6pm with matinees at 3pm. Tickets range from R50 - R250 and bookings are open at Computicket, Shoprite, Checkers outlets, Computicket online and Artscape Dial-a-Seat 021 421 7695. There are discounts for students/scholars, pensioners, and block bookings of 10 or more. These are only available at the Artscape Box Office.