"Voco The Bank Johannesburg Rosebank is a best-in-class property and a great entry to market for IHG. voco The Bank is a distinct hotel with an individual character in the buzzing "walk-work-play" district of Rosebank and will be a great addition to the destination," he says.  "Originating from Latin, the name ‘voco’ means ‘to invite’ or 'call together' and that is exactly what we offer guests with access to work and meeting spaces and an array of onsite facilities and amenities for that much needed 'me time'. This new opening in the trendy hub of Rosebank adds to the momentum we are building in the IMEA region with six voco hotels openings in key cities.”Leisure travellers can look forward to the country’s trendiest shopping precincts are right on the doorstep, with the Gautrain (Johannesburg’s Metro) being a two-minute walk away with an optional concierge assistance. Dining preferences are catered for either with a choice in-room selection and boutique wine-list, or all-day service at the Proud Mary Modern Eatery and Wine Bar. The day can be rounded off in the fully-equipped gym.  For the business traveller, each room has large workspaces with international adaptors, USB ports, fast Wi-Fi and Chromecast televisions. The Bank has an in-house co-working, office, meeting and event space, the award-winning Workshop17, available for bookings in advance.Source: SuppliedGuests can be reassured that the hotel follows global sustainable practices, including using mainly renewable energy, plant-based, luxury bathroom amenities by Antipodes, BCI linen in our rooms and observing various recycling guidelines.  "We know that nowadays guests like to feel that they are making a difference," said Jessica Redinger, general manager of voco The Bank Johannesburg. "We’ve gone out of our way to minimise the impact of our hotel on the environment, using best-practice sustainable guidelines wherever we can. But it is just important for us to look after our guests while also looking after the planet. So, we have not sacrificed our world-class amenities and the comfortable and friendly guest experience that people have come to expect from voco."