This blog post will discuss four of the most popular e-commerce businesses and give you a brief overview of each. We will also provide tips on how to get started with each one.1. Online storefrontsToday, people are making money online by selling their products or services through an online storefront. This option has been around for years, and there are still plenty of opportunities available if you're willing to put in the time and effort required.The first thing you'll need to do is find a niche market  where there's demand but not enough competition. Then, start building relationships with suppliers who can provide the products you want to sell at wholesale prices (or even better).2. Dropshipping – work with a supplier to dropship products to your customersDropshipping is a popular way to make money by using a company that will store inventory. This type of business requires less upfront investment than an online storefront because all you have to do is create a website or store front with images of products from your suppliers' catalogs. When someone places an order on your site, the supplier will ship it directly to their home address.If you're considering a drop shipping company, make sure they have good customer service and can handle returns or exchanges if there is an issue with one of your orders.3. Affiliate marketing – promote other people's products and earn a commission for every sale you makeThis is another great way to make money online because it doesn't require any upfront investment, but you still get paid when someone buys from your affiliate link. There are two different types of affiliates: pay per sale and pay per lead (PPL). Pay per sale means that only people who buy something using your link will earn commissions while PPL means anyone who clicks on it will earn money.The first type is easier because there's no need for you to do any work except advertise their products, but PPL requires more time and effort since people have to actually follow through with their online purchase.4. Digital products – create and sell e-books, online courses, or softwareThis is one of the most popular ways to make money online because it doesn't require any inventory or shipping. All you have to do is create a digital product and put it up for sale on your website or even the AWS marketplace. You can even outsource the creation of this unique product if you don't want to do it yourself.ConclusionWhether you want to create a digital storefront, dropship products from suppliers, or promote affiliate offers through your website and social media channels, there’s an opportunity for success in e-commerce's world.