Khensani Nobanda, group executive for Marketing and Corporate Affairs, Nedbank Group and a member of the Nedbank Group executive leadership, is the new Bookmarks jury president.However, its mandate, to celebrate innovation, creativity and effectiveness within the digital media and marketing industry remains steadfast. Digital more important“Digital has become even more important in a post-pandemic world and The Bookmarks aim to go beyond merely awarding excellence in digital media and marketing,” says Razia van der Schuur, the newly appointed chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) South Africa, which manages The Bookmark Awards. “In 2022, The Bookmarks will become even more relevant in benchmarking excellence within the industry by assuming key priorities enshrined within the mandate of the IAB, including educating and inspiring businesses in the sector.” These priorities include placing users first, creating and maintaining a consistent approach to measurement, transforming the industry from within and providing trustworthy digital supply chains. For the first time in five years, The Bookmarks will also offer partnerships for naming rights, allowing companies the opportunity to partner with the IAB South Africa and the awards in showcasing their brands. . Old traditions, new bloodAs the 2022 season kicks off, The Bookmarks are pleased to welcome Khensani Nobanda as the new Bookmarks jury president. As the group executive for Marketing and Corporate Affairs at Nedbank Group and a member of the Nedbank Group executive leadership, Nobanda is passionate about brands and the potential they have to deliver tangible value to consumers through purpose-led, value-driven initiatives. Backed by a career spanning more than 20 years on two continents, Nobanda’s background in marketing, brand communications and strategic partnerships will prove invaluable as The Bookmarks enter a new era. “The IAB Bookmark Awards continue to play a critical role in encouraging and celebrating innovation excellence, catapulting the industry into thinking about the next best way to execute and deliver for maximum impact,” says Nobanda. “This year, I’d like to see hybrid capabilities across the marketing value chain, especially the connection between offline and online marketing. I also hope to see entries where more whole-brain thinking is unleashed to showcase the true power of how data and creativity can work together in the digital space.” She also holds a BCom from the University of the Witwatersrand with an MBA from the Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS). Khensani Nobanda, 2021 Loeries Marketing Leadership and Innovation Award winner20 Oct 2021Jury nominations openThe Bookmarks’ jury nominations are now open, and those working in the industry are encouraged to nominate experts in the field to oversee eight panels across: MarketingYouth actionPublishingPerformance marketingSocial, community & influencer marketingBuildersInnovative engineersSpecial honoursJury nominations close on Tuesday, 8 March at 4pm. Driving transformation“This year marks a pivotal moment in The Bookmarks’ legacy as we continue to strive towards addressing one of the IAB’s key pillars of success – driving forward the agenda of transformation. Additionally, we are honoured to welcome our new jury president, Khensani Nobanda, who will preside for the next two years,” adds van der Schuur. "In addition to being the flagship industry event that rewards work that helps our industry move forward, The Bookmarks endeavour to become a platform of inspiration and continued education and improvement. “We thank Khensani Nobanda for accepting the role of jury president and committing to furthering the IAB’s objectives through these awards," she adds. Important dates8 March: Jury chairs and panel nominations close 8 March: Award entries open 15 March: Jury chairs announced 30 March: Jury panels announced 31 March: Early bird entries close 30 April: Entries close 9 May: Late entries and payment deadline 17 June: Finalists announced 28 July: 2022 Bookmark Awards eventNominate candidates for jury chair and panels here More information on the 2022 Bookmark Awards here