Achieving Google Premier status is a big deal in the industry; it means being recognised as one of the top 3% of Google Partners in South Africa. In order to qualify as one of Google’s Premier Partners, the expectations and criteria are rigorous; an agency must continuously tick Google's boxes of performance for clients, specialist knowledge and product certification.For a company whose humble beginnings and backstory began in 2016 between a former Googler and a local digital expert reflecting on the digital industry in the African context - this is a prestigious honour. It is also recognition of their hard work over the years for many diverse brands including Bidorbuy, UNICEF, UNFPA, FitChef, Africrest, Skipwaste - both in South Africa and around the globe.Prebo Digital stands for real partnership with clients looking for real, long-term growth. One of their long-time clients, Keith Kingston, global technical director of Weddingsonline, puts it this way: “We partner with Prebo Digital as they provide cutting edge solutions for maximising ROI on Facebook and Google when it comes to PPC.”But what exactly does Google Premier partnership mean? Dr Seuss would say it means they are going places, but let’s let Davang Shah, senior director at Google Ads Marketing, articulate what makes a company shine in the digital performance space and appear on Google’s radar: “These companies stand out based on their commitment to developing product expertise, building new client relationships and helping their current clients to grow. We look forward to supporting them as they help their customers succeed online.”Prebo Digital director and co-founder, Timo Dinkelman, explains how this award will impact the team going forward: “Becoming a Google Premier Partner is beyond just getting certificates and achieving spend. Premier partners are handpicked by Google for strategic growth and partnership. It is also a vote of confidence by Google that any business choosing to work with a Premier partner can expect excellence, support and growth.” As Prebo rides the wave of being selected as part of the Google Partners Programme, they will be empowered with specialised tools, resources and support to further help their clients succeed and grow online. The exclusive and expert Google Premier Partner resources include the following: Advanced Ads support Executive experiences (Roundtables with Google Product and Sales Leadership team, Tailored business coaching) Dedicated account support Product betas (Staying ahead of the industry in testing new Google technologies)For Prebo Digital, this will translate into nuanced innovation and efficiency in maximizing campaign success for all their clients; driving growth by maintaining their clients’ campaigns and demonstrating Google Ads skills and expertise with certifications. For clients, an agency with Google Premier status not only offers specialised industry know-how but they also have a direct line of communication to Google for fast problem-solving; guaranteeing optimized campaigns that drive more highly qualified leads, more results and more profit. (Think of it as an agency having their own personal ‘dragon’ from Dragon’s Den on their team).What will this look like going forward?The constant evolution across the Google landscape means that no company can rest on their laurels. As Prebo Digital proudly showcases the Google Premier Partners accreditation badge, their ongoing commitment will be to keep ticking the Google Partner boxes, partnering with clients for success and continue improving as a team - clearly a winning combination!Don’t miss out on the opportunity for Prebo to partner with you and grow your business.