Giselle will be presented from 18 March until 9 April 2022 in the Artscape Opera House.  International guest artists Vadim Muntagirov, Tatiana Melnik and Brandon Lawrence join the Cape Town Philharmonic Orchestra, under the baton of conductor Brandon Phillips, alongside the dancers of Cape Town City Ballet at select performances.Brandon Lawrence, Tatiana Melnik and Vadim Muntagirov  Seating remains strictly limited due to social distancing and government regulations. All Covid-19 regulations will be in place including social distancing and wearing of masks throughout. “It is fitting that we are able to mark the start of a new, post-pandemic era by bringing international guest artists to Cape Town,” says Debbie Turner, CEO of Cape Town City Ballet. “We are honoured to once again be presenting some of the world’s best ballet dancers on the local stage.” “We are especially delighted to welcome back Vadim and Tatiana, as well as hosting Brandon Lawrence for the first time performing with Cape Town City Ballet. He will partner with our very own Leanè Theunissen, who audiences have recently enjoyed watching in Veronica Paeper’s Carmen and A Christmas Carol – The Story of Scrooge.” Mr Muntagirov and Ms Melnik previously delighted Cape Town audiences in 2019 in Cape Town City Ballet’s production of Denise Schultze Godfrey’s Sleeping Beauty. Cape Town City Ballet opens bookings for Giselle14 Feb 2022Vadim Muntagirov trained at Perm Ballet School before moving to The Royal Ballet Upper School. He joined the Company from English National Ballet as a principal in March 2014. His numerous roles with The Royal Ballet have included Basilio (Don Quixote), Albrecht (Giselle), Prince Siegfried (Swan Lake), Aminta (Sylvia), Prince Florimund (The Sleeping Beauty) and Prince (The Nutcracker). Mr Muntagirov’s many awards include the 2013 and 2018 Benois de la danse and the 2021 Dance Europe Outstanding Dancer Award. Tatiana Melnik is principal at Hungarian National Ballet. She has been a member of the Hungarian State Opera since 2015. She trained at the Academy of Choreography, Perm. Her roles have included Odette/Odile in Swan Lake; Princess Maria in The Nutcracker; Princess Aurora in The Sleeping Beauty; Kitri in Don Quixote; Giselle in Giselle; Cinderella in Cinderella; Manon in Manon; Princess Stephanie in Mayerling; Snow Maiden in Snow Maiden and Nkiya in La Bayadère.  Brandon Lawrence trained with Penny Murray and Andie Nydza before attending the Royal Ballet School where he graduated to join Birmingham Royal Ballet in 2011 to then reach the rank of Principal Dancer in 2019. Lawrence has danced many of the Classics including Swan Lake (Prince Siegfried); The Nutcracker (Prince); Sleeping Beauty (Prince Florimund); Giselle (Count Albrecht); Romeo and Juliet (Romeo); La Fille Mal Gardée (Colas) and Beauty and the Beast (Beast).