Jeanette GroveGrove’s first-hand experience in digital content and communication paved the way to her team growing their own client portfolio, as well as servicing Grey’s long-standing clients and the Grey/WPP Team Liquid’s Distell brands, which includes Savanna – a legendary local brand known to tap into South African culture through humour.“It’s a great honour to see my original team grow with the demands of our clients,” explains Grove. “We have worked hard these past few years, reaching new heights by running successful campaigns, producing quality content, and winning digital awards. It’s a pleasure to welcome these talented community managers to the team.”Community managers are an essential (and often underrated) part of every brand’s social presence. Without them, it’s impossible to pull off the type of campaigns Grey is known for. “A good community manager builds brand equity and taps into your audience, by finding those gems of positive sentiment and user-generated content that would otherwise remain unseen. They can influence the way people perceive your brand.”Meet the wolvesDhrishti Mohanlall – CM on RMB“At Grey, I think we have struck the right balance of crazy and daring, to create some great work for our brands.” Dineo Mokaila – CM on Consol Glass and Sensodyne“Community management cultivates and nurtures the relationship between a brand and its customers.”Kaylynne Smith – CM on Distell“Joining Jeanette’s social team has been one of the most phenomenal things to occur in my life. Grey is unlike any company I’ve ever worked for, and I’ve loved it so far!”Lerato Sithole – CM on Distell“The importance of talking 'with' instead of 'to' our audience brings about far better results, because it humanises the brand and creates authentic relationships with our customers.”Mpho Nkambule – CM on Distell“Joining Grey has really shown me the unity and support that there is here. As hectic as it gets, there is that sense of community within that gives you the assurance that you’ve made the best choice.”Trevor Ngwenya – CM on Distell“Every brand needs a voice, and community managers are your digital voices.”Bongani Khumalo – CM Team Lead on Distell“I’m proud to be advancing further on my career path with my first team lead role, and starting at a new organisation during the pandemic. The support received so far has made the transition seamless.”“We welcome our new wolves! Their roles are vital to our brands. Social media and content should never be an afterthought. It is an intrinsic part of any brand's communication, and a useful platform before, during, and after a campaign," Jeanette concludes.