Imaged sourced: Natali Prize Commissioner for International Partnerships, Jutta Urpilainen, said, “The Lorenzo Natali Media Prize celebrates its 30th anniversary. Democratic backsliding that we have witnessed during the pandemic, hybrid threats, disinformation and shrinking space for civil society are all worryingphenomena, which brave journalists tackle. As showcased at the Summit for Democracy in December, the EU is a firm supporter of fundamental freedoms and those who defend them, often with high personal risk. The Lorenzo Natali Media Prize is a symbol of our support to those who give voice to the voiceless and bring truth to light.” Conditions for applicationsReporters may submit their work in written, audio and video formats in one of these three categories:Grand Prize; for reporting published by a media outlet based in one of the European Union's partner countries.Europe Prize; for reporting published by a media outlet based in the European Union.Best Emerging Journalist Prize; for reporting by a journalist below the age of 30, published in a media outlet based in the European Union or in one of its partner countries.David Adjaye named first recipient of Charlotte Perriand Award2 days agoThe submission should be made online in one of the five accepted languages (English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, or German). Applications can be submitted from today until 31 March 2022 at 11.59pm Central European Time (CET). Submissions can be entered online here. Previous winnersIn 2021, the three winners were Pari Saikia, Maria Altimira Lazaro and Srishti Jaswal.  Saika won the Grand Prize for her story Rohingya Brides Thought They Were Fleeing Violence. Then They Met Their Grooms. This story explored the exploitation of Rohingya refugee women, and exposed the drivers and the methods used in trafficking women in the region.  Lazaro won the Europe Prize for her story Abusos en los campos de fresas. This story explored labour and sexual abuse suffered by farm workers, and the attempts to hold oversight agencies accountable for abuses that were happening under their watch.Jaswal won the Best Emerging Journalist Prize for her story The Global Hunger Index Reveals India's Ignored Hunger Crisis. This story explored India’s hidden hunger crisis and the under-reporting of deaths due to starvation.  Selection of winnersA Grand Jury of international renowned journalists and specialists in international development from around the world will choose the winners in each category. Each winner will receive €10,000. The winner of the Best Emerging Journalist category will also be offered work experience with a media partner. #WorldRadioDay: Sibongile 'Sibs' Mafu reflects on 15 years in radioBy Evan-Lee Courie 11 Feb 2022 The winners will be announced at the Lorenzo Natali Media Prize Award Ceremony during the 2022 European Development Days between 14 - 15 June 2022.