He takes over the VUT reins from Professor Maggie Linington who graciously steered the institution during the interim period that his appointment was being processed.Kgwadi shares the ethos of VUT and is a great addition, having come from North West University where he served in a similar role for several years.   End of Administration Era – VUT under new leadershipWe have entered a new era of hope and stability for the 56-year old institution. The first milestone was in August 2021 when governance was reinforced through the induction of a new council. The immediate task for the council was to stabilise management by appointing a vice-chancellor and principal as well as filling executive vacancies. Over a two-year period commencing in August 2019, the administrator, Professor Ihron Rensburg was responsible for both governance and management of VUT.Addressing staff and students during the welcoming ceremony, Council Chairperson Refilwe Buthelezi said: “This is a history-making moment for VUT. A few months ago the administrator’s term came to an end, and a new council of capable professionals took over governance of the institution. Today, Prof Kgwadi assumed leadership of the management of the institution. The institution is therefore under new stable and responsive leadership.  An opportune time for revisioning and refocusing VUT is upon us”.  “As Council we have pledged to roll up our sleeves and work with management to drive VUT towards excellence and delivery of its mandate.  Among other key mission-critical deliverables we have committed to are: improving the institution’s governance efficiency; financial management and sustainability reserves; filling critical vacancies and prioritising the academic project in its entirety,” said Buthelezi.The chairperson thanked Professor Linington who has acted in the role of vice-chancellor and principal since September 2021. In response, Kgwadi thanked VUT Council for an opportunity to give back to his alma mater. “I’m here because I regard the role of leading the VUT to the next level as a higher calling. My intention is to assist the university to fulfil its mandate of shaping and delivering technology-savvy products to the market. I am excited to work hand in hand with internal and external stakeholders to accomplish this assignment, in the short lead time I have before me."   “I concur with the chair of council, VUT is under new leadership – a partnership that requires the commitment and zest of all stakeholders,” said Kgwadi.The date of the vice-chancellor’s inauguration will be announced in due course.