Vincent Entonu | image suppliedEntonu has played an active role in the African IT industry, boasting over 20 years of experience in the market within functions that include sales, marketing, and channel development. He joined Westcon-Comstor 11 years ago as business manager for Comstor Africa; since then, he has worked as general manager and practice lead, Comstor Africa. In his most recent role as director, Comstor Africa, Entonu has spearheaded growth for the business across the region.“As a global business, we are innately aware of the importance of thinking globally but delivering locally. This is an ethos and a business mantra that Vincent brings to his everyday management techniques while continuously aligning our offerings to a local, African context,” said Rakesh Parbhoo, global CTO and CEO Sub Saharan Africa, Westcon-Comstor. “I am delighted that Vincent has accepted the role as managing director for the region and will support me and the executive management. He is a man of vision and action, exactly what a continent built on innovation requires as we continue to develop and deliver our specialised brand of Westcon-Comstor technology solutions and services.”The managing director role forms a critical link to the region's local and global executive leadership, providing on the ground support to the Westcon-Comstor Africa team as it furthers its investment into growing the African channel landscape. Entonu will continue to support the business as it spearheads the delivery of its marketplace and solutions lifecycle model for resellers. At the same time, developing and fostering partnerships with vendors who provide the tools the continent needs to drive and capitalise on innovation."It gives me great pleasure to accept the role of managing director and expand my influence across the greater Westcon-Comstor Africa business. Over the past decade with the company, I've grown as a person and seen the need amongst our African resellers for solutions that support their desire to become a cloud-first continent. A need that Westcon-Comstor is in a position to fulfil as our portfolio extends beyond product, to include specific, tailored solutions for each region in which we operate," added Entonu.