In this edition of Public Sector Leaders, we focus on justice, with profiles on Honourable Ronald Lamola and Standard Bank Top Women Lifetime Achiever, Justice Yvonne Mokgoro. We take a look at the National Prosecuting Authority's response to Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo’s State Capture report. We also share the good news coming from the agriculture sector and our focus on the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment looks at the creation of green jobs.Special features include:We examine the National Prosecuting Authority’s efforts to fight corruption.Our ‘Trailblazer’ is the Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Honourable Ronald Lamola, who is doing the unbelievable. Should you be getting a booster shot? Are they available? We give an update on Covid-19 booster shots.Justice Yvonne Mokgoro is featured as our inspiring Woman In Leadership.The rules of engagement – ‘Legal Matters’ offers you advice on remote working.In his first letter to the nation for the month of February, His Excellency, Cyril Ramaphosa focused on South Africa’s two-year chairship of the African Peer Review Forum, which came to an end recently during the 35th African Union Assembly of Heads of State and Government.“Just as South Africa’s fortunes are inextricably tied to those of the continent, we are also inevitably affected by political, economic and other forms of instability in Africa. This makes our participation in the African Peer Review Mechanism all the more critical. “We share a responsibility, alongside our sister countries, to strengthen good governance in Africa. After all, good governance brings investment, development, peace, progress and, ultimately, shared prosperity.” – President RamaphosaIt is a busy month for public sector leaders with our President attending the 31st African Peer Review Forum of Heads of State and Government and participating in the 35th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the Head of State and Government of the African Union. President Ramaphosa received a courtesy call from President Hichilema of the Republic of Zambia and addressed members of Cosatu, Fedusa and Nactu at the Annual Nedlac Organised Labour School. His Excellency also officiated at the launch of the NantSA vaccine manufacturing campus in Brackengate, Cape Town.The month of February celebrates social justice and the environment. On Feb 10, H.E. Ramaphosa will deliver the Sona, which we cover as the lead story in this edition of Public Sector Leaders. The bumper edition includes: A Covid update, a look at conservation efforts across the provinces and a focus on social justice and economic inclusion in  South Africa. We zoom in on the top three study fields in the country and celebrate our booming agricultural sector in the article “Growing the economy” as well as the importance of CSI, especially in these tough times.Whether you are in the public sector, the private sector, supply chain or an interested individual, PSL has something for you.We hope you enjoy the read.Keep your finger on the pulse! To stay in the loop on all current affairs, check out the latest edition of the Public Sector Leaders publication on Issuu, here. For enquiries regarding being profiled or showcased in the next edition of the Public Sector Leader publication, please set up a appointment with our National Project Manager, Emlyn Dunn, here.