South African online shoe store DC.ONE releases a brand-new app for both iOS and Google Play devices. Available for download from February 2022, customers in South Africa and SADC countries will have instant access to their favourite footwear styles from their mobile devices.  Since the majority of the traffic to the site is from mobile devices, the footwear company decided it was time to create an app specifically for mobile. DC.ONE will be one of the first online shoe stores to invest in an app in South Africa.  “The massive growth we’ve achieved is unprecedented,” says Robert Stoller, one of the company's directors of Dangee Carken. “Since many of our website users come from mobile, we decided 2022 was the time to invest in the DC.ONE app. We wanted to make sure that app users would be able to do everything they can do on the website, from the app.”  Not only will this make online shopping on mobile more accessible, but users will get instantly notified when there are sales, discounts, and new products added to the range. The app will feature app-only discounts, exclusive access, and seamless integration with social media.  DC.ONE is a member of the Dangee Carken family. The business initially focussed on wholesale but quickly realised the benefit of selling directly to the public. It started with retail stores around Johannesburg but quickly outgrew those. “With Covid-19 affecting shopping in stores, we decided it was time to launch an online store,” explained Stoller. DC.ONE’s online store went live in July 2020 and has experienced incredible growth since then, with each month drastically outperforming the last. “There’s been a huge shift to mobile apps both locally and internationally, especially when it comes to online stores. We’ve seen it through our websites as well. So we decided to take the leap and invest in our own app. We’re expecting great things from the investment.”  The online store stocks some of the best fashion footwear brands for ladies, men, and children. You can find shoes from Miss Black, Butterfly Feet, UrbanArt, ViaBeach, Little Miss Black, Roberto Morino, and Mazerata on DC.ONE.  This year the site is also adding brand new fashion brands, Flutterby and Rock & Co, to their impressive collection.  The app is being launched just in time for the launch of the Winter collection. allowing customers throughout South Africa to order their fashion footwear essentials, directly from the DC.ONE app. First-time app users will also be able to get R100 off their first app order.  Click here to download the app and get shopping with DC.ONE.