“Our extensive report covers the entire South African marketing landscape and provides useful details of each agency, containing information that can be used to provide many areas of insight and value. The report is often used by clients who are looking to assess the best or ideal agency to join a pitch or procurement process.” In Scopen’s new report, Ogilvy has been recognised as the overall Best Agency in SA, scoring the highest in 'Innovation, Digital & Business Transformation', 'Integrated Services', 'Account Service' followed by 'Effective Creativity' and 'Strategic Planning'. Ogilvy is also perceived as the most Ideal Agency to work with by South African professionals. Ogilvy has held both positions already, from the previous survey done in 2019. “Our ability to re-invent ourselves and adapt our offering to our clients’ needs has always been in our DNA,” adds Mathieu Plassard, chief client officer. “From being the first major agency to establish an interactive capability in 1981 (Ogilvy Interactive, then Ogilvy One) to leading the Integration agenda in the 2000s and now being able to intersect our various expertise in Advertising, Brand and Content, Digital & Social performance, PR & Influence, Health & Wellness, or Design to build bespoke solutions.” “In this fourth edition of the study in South Africa, we conducted 465 interviews of senior marketers, creative agencies & media agencies professionals, as well as media owners,” says Johanna McDowell, partner & MD UK and South Africa Scopen. “The agency landscape has evolved and is even more competitive than a few years ago. Clients expect agencies to perform in every aspect; to excel in creativity, digital capabilities through to strategy, client service and innovation.” “It’s our ongoing intention to be at the forefront of change and evolution, in order to service our clients with the most impactful work possible. And it’s our ability to consistently produce impactful work, that allowed us to win No1 position at the Effies last year, as the Most Effective Agency in South Africa. In our quest to never stop evolving, we have also just launched a new approach to gathering consumer insights. To ensure our thinking is as close to the fast-moving pace of local culture as possible,” comments Pete Case, CEO and creative chairman, Ogilvy South Africa. Additionally, Ogilvy ranked #3 in 'Black Empowerment & Transformation' (and best global network) a tribute to the long-standing and continued investment in transforming the industry. Ogilvy – a level 1 B-BBBEE and 51% black owned agency – proudly includes 83 of its black employees as shareholders. Ogilvy also funds some of the most progressive bursary schemes that induct and train graduates into the industry, through its annual O25 Programme. In parallel, it has added to its commitment to help transform the industry by launching the Molefi Thulo Bursary Programme in partnership with the Loeries.