We’re celebrating a whole month of romance this February 2022 with the #ReigniteTheLove promotion. Special Valentine’s rates are offered on weekends, from R700 per room per night for two people sharing, and breakfast is on us. We’re throwing in a three-course plated dinner on offer at selected hotels on Valentine’s Day itself.The MyValentine rate is available for walk-in, telephone and email reservations, and online bookings via www.clhg.com. Rates are per room per night, single or double occupancy, on Friday, Saturday and/or Sunday nights, from 4 to 27 February 2022: Courtyard Hotels from R999, City Lodge Hotels from R799, Town Lodges from R749 and Road Lodges from R700. Rate includes VAT, tourism levy and breakfast for two people. Offer is subject to availability and not to be used in conjunction with any other specials or negotiated rates. Rates are net and non-commissionable. A romantic setting will be accentuated by our three-course plated dinner on 14 February 2022 will include smoked salmon trout salad for starter, beef brisket served on creamy mashed potatoes with seasonal vegetables for main course, and delicious traditional malva pudding with ice cream and custard for dessert, followed by tea or coffee. Enjoy a glass of Benguela Cove Cuvée58 Cap classic sparkling wine or apple juice on us! Dinner will be served from 18h00 to 21h00 and must be booked and prepaid by 14h00 on 11 February. No same-day reservations will be allowed. Hotels offering the Valentine’s Dinner include: Courtyard Hotel Sandton; Courtyard Hotel Rosebank; Courtyard Hotel Arcadia; Courtyard Hotel Port Elizabeth; City Lodge Hotel Bloemfontein; City Lodge Hotel Umhlanga; City Lodge Hotel Durban; City Lodge Hotel GrandWest; City Lodge Hotel Lynnwood; City Lodge Hotel Fourways; City Lodge Hotel Newtown; Town Lodge Mbombela; Town Lodge Polokwane; Town Lodge Bellville; and Town Lodge Umhlanga. You can also make it extra-special for the love of your life by personalising your room with roses, from R25 per single stem, R150 for six roses, R300 for 12 roses and R600 for two dozen roses. Lindiwe Sangweni-Siddo, chief operating officer, says, “We have put together a special rate to encourage couples and besties to take time out this month and enjoy a relaxing weekend at a hotel, inclusive of breakfast. And while Valentine’s Day may fall on a Monday this year, we’ve got you covered – selected hotels in the group are offering a special dinner that evening. After all we’ve been through the past couple of years, a weekend away is just the spoil you need to reignite the love.”