Last year's important trend, personalisation, continues to be relevant as customers demand that their brands understand them better. “Various personalisation strategies help marketers enhance customer experiences and build brand loyalty by establishing strong relationships. Customers will trust brands that have their best interests in mind, especially when it comes to product recommendations," said Desirée Gullan, co-founder and executive creative director of G&G Digital. When marketers combine personalisation with innovative digital marketing tools and tactics, they can achieve their goals and better connect with their target audience, building loyalty over the long term. The following five trends should shape your 2022 marketing strategy and help your brand and business thrive. 1. Conversational marketingThe days of waiting 24 hours for a reply from a brand are long gone. Consumers want a response – and they want it now – on their preferred platforms, times and in a tone of voice they can relate to. Conversational marketing sets out to connect via chats, text, personalised videos, and emails, all with the intention of putting the individual consumer at the centre and enhancing their experience. 2. Video marketingVideo isn't optional. A Wyzowl survey shows that 84% of customers buy products or services after watching a video. More than five billion videos are watched on YouTube every day, and other social media platforms are following this strategy. To get more eyeballs on your videos, produce content that your customers want to see, that adds value and makes use of live broadcasts on Instagram or Facebook to drive higher engagement. Repurpose video content for blogs, podcasts, and other channels. 3. Green marketingClimate change is a major concern, and customers will select brands that are committed to looking after the planet. Ninety percent of millennials say they’ll spend more money on sustainable and environmentally conscious brands. And for once, Gen Zs are agreeing with millennials. 4. Inclusivity and diversityMarketing campaigns should reflect real people––across age, race, ethnicity, gender, language, socioeconomic status, health, disabilities, religion, dietary and diverse body types. You don't need to cater to every possible demographic in one campaign, but your customers should be able to relate, and importantly, know that their brands of choice are inclusive. 5. Shoppable contentSocial commerce and online shopping have changed the way people browse, shop, review and recommend. Make this process easy, intuitive and with the least obstacles. Ensure your customers can make purchases or enquiries directly through social posts or connected TVs. And don’t forget, the power of storytelling and customer recommendations to convert. “There’s a myriad of ways of bolstering your personalised marketing with smart digital tactics,” concluded Gullan, “and you don’t need to use them all at once. Look at your strategy, understand your customers, identify the most relevant channels and innovative tools and content to better engage with them. The best part about digital is you can trial, measure, and optimise, one channel at a time.” Customers will identify with your brand if they see you're authentic and when they see themselves reflected in your marketing. Your business and brand can thrive and remain competitive when you understand your customers and converse with them in ways that resonate.