As an educational institution, trends and the demand for jobs are paramount in deciding the type of qualifications we offer. Offering IIE qualifications that make students employable is essential to ensuring that students have the chance to pursue their dream careers. The IIE Diploma in Digital Marketing is on offer at IIE Rosebank College campuses in 2022. We also have the IIE Higher Certificate in Digital Marketing, which equips students with the necessary skills to access entry-level digital marketing jobs on completion – allowing students to start with a higher certificate and progress to the diploma. Facts about the IIE Diploma in Digital Marketing:This is a three-year IIE qualification offered at IIE Rosebank College. Available full-time at the following campuses: Braamfontein, Bloemfontein, Pretoria CBD, Cape Town, Durban, Polokwane, Pietermaritzburg, and Nelson Mandela Bay.This IIE qualification is also available online through IIE Distance Learning for individuals who want to study and work. At IIE Rosebank College, students can begin with an IIE Higher Certificate in Digital Marketing and progress to the IIE Diploma in Digital Marketing.This IIE qualification is ideal for creative thinkers, innovators, and problem solvers. Graduates of the IIE Diploma in Digital Marketing course will be equipped with diverse skills such as data analysis, social media marketing, search engine optimisation (SEO), email marketing, digital advertising, content creation, and basic design skills. This makes them ideal candidates for positions such as digital marketing specialists or social media community managers. With more and more organisations moving their brands online, the demand for digital skills continues to soar. With the current global economy, data-driven marketing is essential for brands to optimise their budgets online and reach the right customers. The need for affordable, accredited digital marketing courses to enrich businesses has also increased. Digital marketing is not just about creating digital adverts or creating Facebook and Instagram posts; it involves planning, targeting, budgeting, strategising, implementing, and measuring. An excellent digital marketing course must equip graduates with the right skills and business acumen. Graduates of digital qualifications will need to reinvent themselves, as the digital space is fast-paced and constantly changing.2022 applications are open at IIE Rosebank College. Find out more here.