The pandemic has launched most of us out of our comfort zones, with many people having lost their jobs or having had their salaries cut. It's become evident that we can therefore no longer be complacent, purely relying on our current jobs for a secure source of income every month end. With unemployment set to reach an all-time high, now is the perfect time to learn effective strategies to increase your grasp of social media. So whether you currently own a business, work in social media/marketing, are unemployed, or are looking for a new venture, why not invest in a social media course? You'll be able to apply what you'll learn to your current business, start your own business in social media marketing, or find employment as a social media manager.Nobody likes to be out of their depth... Are you a little overwhelmed by the myriad of social media options? You're not alone! Do you feel like you have just mastered one platform, and another one mushrooms up? Don't despair - by dedicating just one hour per day (for 21 days), you can learn all you need to know about social media. What is social media marketing? Social media marketing is a process to bring your offering in front of your ideal buyers on social media channels. In a world full of noise, you have to position yourself apart from your competitors. Social media marketing is a set of proven strategies to help you cut through the clutter and reach potential customers. It is an umbrella term for all your company's social media marketing efforts, and includes your social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, Linkedin, TikTok, Clubhouse, messaging and bots, reporting, paid ads such as Facebook ads including boosting, etc. But why social media marketing? Did you know that in 2021, just over half of the world’s total population (4.6 billion) was using social media? Furthermore, nearly 60% of the world’s population now uses the internet, and two-thirds already have a mobile phone. Internet users are currently growing at a rate of more than 8% per year, with 346 million people having come online for the first time within the past 12 months. Social media users are growing even faster - global user numbers have increased by more than 10% since this time last year (that's 376 million new users, i.e. one million new social media users every day). But the big numbers aren’t limited to user figures. Social Media Success offers a social media marketing course that covers all aspects of sales and marketing online. The course kicks off with the basics, by first identifying your ideal customer, then identifying why they should buy from you rather than your competitors, and then creating a one-page strategic plan to create compelling content, followed by how to implement your strategy for great results. This is not a magical unicorn sit-on-your-bum-and-learn course! You have to work this course, and like anything in life, you have to commit. Success is a series of consistent steps. Many seasoned digital marketing and social media fundis have reported they have learned new things on this course, yet prior to doing this course saying they already know how to do social media marketing. Sunil has helped hundreds of businesses around the world to get to grips with this social media marketing. Why this course?  You will always have access to recorded material and you can do it from the comfort of your own home or office.  Many social media courses are lengthy and expensive, but this one has been designed with entrepreneurs in mind – it's for busy people who do not have time (or money) to waste.  You'll discover how to fill your pipeline with leads, that become clients, using online marketing channels like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, websites and email marketing. After this course you will be able to:  Do social media the right way.  Attract your ideal buyers through various channels, i.e. Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, etc.  Create beautiful posters and banners.  Get more clients and customers. This course will cover the following:  Strategy: Learn how to create a detailed social media plan for clients/your own business.  Content creation: Learn how to create a content calendar and content ideas, as well as how to schedule content.  Graphics: Learn how to create compelling and engaging graphics using a free and easy-to-use design programme.  Channels: Get to grips with the different social media channels, i.e. Facebook pages and ads, Instagram, and a little LinkedIn.  Clients: Learn how to find clients using social media when first starting out.  Reporting: Learn how to do full reporting and how to measure the ROI of social media.  Results: Learn how to measure social media campaign results for paid ads reporting and what matters. Who’s it for? Business owners, estate agents, school-leavers, marketing professionals, virtual assistants, graphic designers, stay-at-home moms, soon-to-be moms, go-getters, action-takers, self-starters, etc. What can you expect afterwards?  Increased sales  Increased walk-in consumers  More bums in seats Will I understand what you are saying, or am I going to feel dumb and drown in technical jargon? We have made it as simple as possible, A.K.A. 'Social Media 101'... but if you do not understand anything, Sunil is a phonecall or email away. What are the deets?  It’s a full-day course and runs from 8am to 5pm, followed by 21 days of practicals (one-hour lessons delivered daily).  Accountabilty through a dedicated WhatsApp and Facebook group will keep you on track.  You will have unlimited access to the trainer for coaching and mentoring during the three weeks post-course.  You'll get training materials and video recordings, as well as one-on-one coaching.  You'll get access to the trainer for urgent social media coaching. Must I mortage a kidney to pay for the course? Many social media courses are lengthy and expensive, but this one has been designed with time-and-cash-strapped entrepreneurs in mind - apply what you will learn to your current business or start your own business in social media marketing, or find employment as a social media manager. What you can expect:  Content ideas  Inspiration for posts  Discover the best time to post  How to boost posts most effectively  How to define growth strategies  How to convert fans into customers  365 days of social media content  How to set up your social media pages  New platforms like TikTok and Clubhouse How to use Instagram on your computer  Facebook for Business - pages, linking, leads  How to generate leads quickly  Instagram for Business - stories, hashtags, tricks  Ads - how to set up advertising properly instead of flushing rands down the toilet  What is a hashtag? How do we create them? What are the benefits of using hashtags?  What are stories? How can we leverage stories? Bring along an entrepreneurial spirit and being computer literate is a prerequisite. Date: 24 February 2022Time: 09h00 - 16h00 Venue: Balalaika Sandton, Sandton Cost: 999Teas, coffees and snacks will be provided on arrival, mid-morning and mid-afternoon. A sit-down lunch will also be provided. More info: The Balalaika is the perfect starting point to experience Johannesburg with all its exciting experiences; the hotel offers complimentary shuttle services to and from the Gautrain Station in Sandton. (The Gautrain allows travellers to travel 12 minutes on train to the Sandton from the OR Tambo International Airport.) Contact: Sunil SewpersadhCompany name: Social Media SuccessTelephone number: 0817146525Email address: az.oc.saidemlaicos@ofniBooking link: https://www.socialmedias.co.za/What do past delegates think of Sunil's training? Dis-Chem Ride4 Sight 20 February 2022. Great on line entry thanks directly to the tutoring by Sunil. We have applied all his lessons and we are reaping the benefits. Cycling to restore the gift of Sight. Thank you Sunil from Sandy and Claudette. #Dis-Chem #Ride4Sight #retinasaThank you so much for your most interesting and informative workshop on LinkedIn that you hosted for our clients. It is very clear that you know your subject and we all left with a wealth of practical tips and knowledge to implement straight into our businesses. Darryn Le Grange ActionCOACH Fantastic course. I have so, so enjoyed everything about the course especially how you have put the course together and made it easy for us to attend, learn and also connect with other attendees which I have really enjoyed too. I am even thinking of doing the course again. Kim Knight Executive CoachWow, wow, wow and wow again! I can't thank Mr Sew enough for the service he provides so exceptionally well. A man so confident in what he does, that he's willing to share his years of experience with you. His product offerings are most certainly worth every penny; as he'll never leave you high and dry. I'd recommend him time and time again! Keep up the great work my good Sir! Sandiso Makhunga HR MattersAs the director of a local NPO I have realised for a while that we have been sorely lacking in the social media space. When the opportunity came during COVID-19 to do some online learning through Sunil's course with a colleague, we took it. Sunil's training is practical, and hands-on. He is always willing to go the extra mile and help you with a specific query, even after the course completion. His free social breakfasts have provided another platform of engagement as one navigates this field. Highly recommend anyone to try it out Julie Todd Child Welfare PMBI used the services of Sunil Sew to help familiarise me with Linkedin and Instagram. He was able to de-mystify many elements and he gave me so many valuable tips that I have been able to implement easily. He is very approachable, knowledgeable and I recommend him to anyone who would like to learn more about maximising social media. Cindy Norcott ~ CEO, Pro Talent and Pro AppointmentsSunil provides easy to follow, step-by-step guidelines on how to set up and leverage your social media presence. The Social Media Manager course takes you through each aspect  using a variety of learning materials, making it easy to learn and apply the new information. Sunil's course is exceptional good value for money. Highly recommended. Alison Coates ~ Emotional Intelligence Consultant,  Revo ConsultantSunil has helped and inspired me so much. His knowledge of his industry is phenomenal. He has designed my website and helped me with a lot of my social media knowledge. He always shares information generously and he is also always available if you have a question. Tessa Spanneberg ~ Mindventure AustraliaAs a small business owner, I stubbornly choose not to outsource my social media. I attended Sunil's course on Social Media. The course itself was very well organised, affordable, and gave me some excellent insights into running my own social media. Sunil's course and after-course assistance makes it easier to structure and plan my company's social media content. Tanya Hanekom Audiologist Sandton Hearing and BalanceSunil is very kind, patient and professional. I worked with him for more than two years and learned a lot about my website and working with Wordpress. Now it’s time for Digital Marketing. In a really easy way he helps you step-by-step to understand digital marketing and everything around it. He will guide you, and always takes time to help you if you get stuck or need his help. Nathalie van der Erve ~ Faithlifestyle HollandSunil worked with me to help bring me into the world of Facebook and Instagram advertising. He was able to make something that I found very daunting, easy to digest by breaking it down in bite-size steps. But it's not just learning the nuts and bolts with Sunil.  He really wants to help you and see you succeed! Even after you have completed your course with him, he keeps in touch and is always available to assist and share information (you'll never be alone to figure social media out again, as his knowledge and experience in the digital world is vast). I would recommend working with Sunil to anyone. Jenna Hill ~ Social Media ManagerI cannot sing Sunil's praises enough! His course has turned on many lights for me and converted a social media wimp into an upskilled dame. His gift is that he is a genuine teacher who knows how to share his expertise in a way that makes it all seem doable, always on call to help smooth the way whatever your problem is. A thousand thank yous. Elana Bregin - Published Author I am currently a student and am now learning so many new things about social media. For me it was always just about just posting my pics and going on and liking, but by now learning how to correctly use it to drive business to increase sales, is amazing. I am really enjoying the programme and creating my buyer persona. I would certainly recommend this programme to all SMMEs, especially during this time where most businesses need to adapt and transition to the digital era of 4IR. Saloshnee Govender - INSETA Thanks for a very informative and useful course, presented in a technophobe-friendly manner. I appreciated your accessibility - your easy presentation style, your willingness to assist outside the normal class time, and the time you take to answer questions. I have been recommending your course to others who have been hesitant about social media. Debra Primo - UKZN Press - Publisher About the Trainer: Sunil has been training brands, businesses, and individuals since 2002, some of which include: The Gautrain, Clearance Warehouse, WeBuyFurniture, Sports Nation, RMI, MasterBuilders, Builders Warehouse, Silica, Hatfield Christian School, ActionCOACH, Wheelchair BasketBall SA and Aspen Pharmaceuticals.Sunil Sewpersadh is an astute digital marketing specialist. He is a sought-after digital virtuoso with more than 21 years’ experience in design, development, mobile, UX, online advertising, social media, search, online reputation management and training. He has coached and guided global companies in all industries in creating digital strategies designed to cut through the clutter so brands are able to meaningfully connect with their target audiences. Sunil has his finger on the pulse of latest digital trends and has collaborated with top companies. Sunil is a people’s person whose ultimate goal is to inspire, empower and educate businesses. “When you understand the digital environment, you will reduce costs, save time and maximise your online spend, conversions and reach.”