In observing International Women’s Day on 8 March, the 2022 Forbes Woman Africa Leading Women Summit, presented by Mastercard, will, across two days – 8-9 March 2022 – reflect the times, trends and topics leading pandemic recovery in Africa and the world. The fully-virtual seventh annual edition of the summit will convene a powerful community of female champions, barrier-breakers, goal-diggers and visionary voices unlocking new thinking under the theme ‘Resetting Everything: The New Face of Leadership’. “The focus on the female entrepreneur will continue as we contextualize her tears and triumphs in mainstreaming her work and finances. The summit will largely focus on the new leadership mindset, the diversity and the playbook needed for every aspect of life, work, art, business and money as also the new metaverse expected to level the playing field for the female workforce,” says Renuka Methil, managing editor of Forbes Africa and Forbes Woman Africa. “This year’s summit will be about reimagining, rebuilding and resetting the pathways of change to unleash the power of all, as we bring together the best and the brightest from across multiple time zones into a virtual stage, thus igniting a new discourse to foster systemic change on the African continent,” Methil further explains. “Gender equality remains a core business priority at Mastercard – especially now as the continent looks to recover from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is critical that we use this time as a reset to ensure that we build a better future, one where everyone is included,” says Ebehijie Momoh, country manager and area business head for West Africa at Mastercard. “We are proud to partner with the Forbes Woman Africa Leading Women Summit – which has grown into one of the largest, most visible platforms for women to share their stories, address challenges, and chart the way forward in terms of the leadership mindset that is required to unlock sustainable growth. We believe that it is only by working together that we can unlock women’s full potential. And a world that works better for women, creates limitless possibilities for us all,” concludes Momoh. The summit will boast more than 40 African and international speakers. Last year, the two-day, fully-virtual summit was graced by about 2,000 attendees from 103 countries. For more, go to https://leadingwomensummit.co.za/