Source: Supplied The cultural expressions of African and diasporic communities share a common foundation, a fight for the recognition of their Humanity and the importance of acknowledging their role in its history.  This year, the festival will explore humanity's future under the theme of Human[U]nity - after the global pandemic hit during the peak of climate discussions all around the globe, Humanity must now figure out how to survive, together, as one! Concerts, discussions and more…The two-day festival will feature a unique line-up of local and international artists. The local artists include The Brother Moves On, Msaki, Gontse Makhene, Malcolm Jiyane and students from the 'Morris Isaacson Center for Music’.  International artists who will make an appearance at the festival include Aloe Blacc, Nicola Conte, Djeuhdjoah and Lieutenant Nicholson, Bholoja and Raashan Ahmad, who will be performing for the first time in South Africa. Neon Dreams announces dates for 10-day SA tour24 Jan 2022The Locrate Market - Soweto’s famous market will present 15 stalls with delicious food and local arts and crafts for a day of fun and culture. In addition to the music and local market, the festival will also feature a series of public conversations and exchanges exploring the theme of Human[U]nity  facilitated by Kaya959’s Nicky Blumenfeld. Guest speakers will include Benjamin Levy (festival director, promoter and educator), Azah (master percussionist and music therapist) and others. The Freedom Songs ProjectIn South Africa, struggle songs have played a major political role and Hugh Masekela once described the country’s journey to liberation as a “musical revolution”. Since the Covid-19 pandemic, artists are once again using their voices to express the sentiments of the people and/or encourage hope, resilience and healing. The Freedom Songs Project is an interactive live collaborative performance, curated specifically for the festival, making a musical “moment in history” and igniting a way forward. During this history-making event, artists will honor the South African“musical revolution” tradition. Liefde By Die Dam brings Afrikaans music back to the stage31 Jan 2022The Brother Moves On, an eclectic, barrier-breaking musical art ensemble from Johannesburg, will perform as the backdrop for guest appearances from acclaimed artists. Musically directed by Siyabonga Mthembu and Mthunzi Mvubu, this performance will also feature Msaki, Raashan Ahmad, Gontse Makhene, Malcolm Jiyane, Bholoja, students from the Morris Isaacson Centre for Music and many others. Tickets to the The Paris New York Heritage Festival are available for purchase on the Howler ticketing platform.