With summer holidays possibly long forgotten by now, think back to how you navigated rainy, unplanned days at the coast. Did you pivot easily to instead play board games with friends and family indoors? Perhaps you resorted to building epic-sized puzzles on days when strong coastal December winds forced your hand?Strategic board game playing and puzzle building got me thinking about, well, strategic thinking. Or let’s call it bigger picture thinking. Specifically, people planning.Organisations are required to navigate talent management for the long haul – for obvious reasons. Yes, to cultivate sustainability while navigating changing work cultures. But what exactly sets apart one sustainable organisation from the next one? While building a five thousand piece South African Big Five puzzle, my mind wandered off to try and pinpoint one or more distinctive factors that set apart change-averse organisational cultures from pro-change organisations that thrive during challenging times.Within the organisational setting, how do all five thousand puzzle pieces blend and fit together to complete a beautiful ‘bigger’ picture? Should we assume that pro-change organisational cultures follow a known blueprint during the building process? And how do these cultures fit together talent, skills and competencies of employees and leadership to steer the organisation’s ‘why’?Over recent years, our practice noticed that the right blend of competencies and people who are appointed into well formulated roles do not need much glue. Talent, when planned to complement a pro-change organisational culture, just fits.We noticed that just as much as individual talent, expertise and soft skills need to be a fit, that these attributes tend to naturally permeate towards other employees and affect them in a way that inspire greater and nimbler performance.If we are comfortable with the analogy that employees are like strategic, dynamic puzzle pieces and are fundamental to the wellbeing and sustainability of any business, let us consider a few factors that crafty organisations lean into to build their employee puzzle:1. Identify and plug the skills and competency gapHuman Resources author Peter Capelli said in the Harvard Business Review that organisations have never done as much hiring as they do today. His article also pointed out that according to census data, more and more people accept a new role when they haven’t necessarily searched for one. Can we deduce that a ton of ‘people building’ is currently taking place?If we accept that people can be more easily persuaded to move to new roles even when they are not looking to move, I’d like to invite you to consider amending your approach to talent acquisition.Start with acknowledging that great talent that fits are about the competencies these employees bring to the table, and not ‘skills’.Great talent plugs organisational skills or competency gaps, which is easily identified via a comprehensive organisational culture gap analysis.Essentially, each organisation needs to have identified all of the relevant core competencies (and sub-competencies) of each role. The candidate will need to align with the organisation’s culture, values and purpose, as well as the plug the identified competency gap.  Leaders accept that a continuous process of ‘learning and unlearning’ in a changing world means we will never truly find ‘the perfect candidate’.2. It’s time to retire traditional ‘job specs’The skills and competency gap analysis process may also highlight current development requirements for projected competency needs in addition to current hiring needs within the organisation.For instance, an organisation has a string of new projects coming in over the next three months, all requiring greater entrepreneurial agility competencies in the finance team.Performing a foundational culture assessment will highlight and align the values and purposes of the team with that of the competencies required of the team. We can go one step further to create a systemised skills and competencies gap dashboard. The objective of the dashboard is to map each team member’s score of their own individual skills and competencies to reveal the team’s strengths and focus areas for further development.When pinpointing potential talent in the market, the organisation may need to consider competencies such as proven experience in a fast-paced start up environment, being comfortable with networking and establishing fruitful new relationships, demonstrating creative problem-solving skills and an aptitude for resourcefulness.With that in mind, leadership can now start sourcing the right talent. More often than not, leadership will uncover that such a gap analysis goes beyond shortcomings of traditional job specifications. The gap analysis may paint a clearer picture of all the foundational elements that need to be addressed before hiring can even begin.3. Boundaries and understanding combat turnoverOne reigning trend that has many talent managers sitting alert, is without a doubt the Great Resignation - the recent string of pent-up resignations due to prolonged uncertainty.Losing valuable talent within organisations is a possibility. The loss may result in higher employee turnover, higher operational and talent management costs. It can downright have an unfavourable effect on organisational culture.In today’s hybrid work climate, work commitments are increasingly bleeding into family and personal fulfilment commitments as hybrid work strategies are predominantly influencing work culture boundaries.Studies have shown that more Millennial and GenZ team members are considering quitting for ethical reasons than ever before.  Talent management would be incomplete if these strategies do not include practical efforts in which to retain and grow talent internally. A good place to start is to work towards respecting each employee’s work life balance boundaries and encouraging the pursuit of personal fulfilment.The skilful facilitation of employee culture has never been studied as much as it has been over the last few years. I cannot help but view this proverbial people puzzle as a gift – a tapestry consisting of strategy that is available to any organisation wishing to prioritise understanding, cultivating and mentoring sustainable cultures, while allowing each team member to play a role in completing the larger organisational puzzle. About Francois Kriel:     Francois Kriel is an IMCSA accredited management consultant. He is the founder and managing director of consultancy Kriel & Co, specialising in digital transformation, change management and data privacy. He is also a member of Privacy Officers Africa and guest lecturer at Stellenbosch University’s department of Business Management.     Francois has extensive knowledge on data privacy (such as POPIA compliance) having established an inter-operable practice with the Technology, Media and Telecommunications department at top-tier law firm ENSafrica and advising several of the firm’s clients.      Empowered by the most current digital and legal expertise, he confidently advises organisations on practically achieving their organisational goals, data privacy obligations and change management requirements to effectively fulfil the role of CIO.     More about Kriel & Co:Kriel & Co is an IMCSA-accredited management consulting practice specialising in change management, data privacy compliance, digital transformation and mentorship. The practice actively serves clients in a variety of sectors with a proven track-record of delivering innovative, cost-effective and sustainable strategies for digital change. Consultants are primarily retained on a long-term project basis by clients to oversee holistic digital transformation projects and initiatives.     Get in touch: moc.ocdnaleirk@olleh