UnchartedStreet-smart Nathan Drake (Tom Holland) is recruited by seasoned treasure hunter Victor “Sully” Sullivan (Mark Wahlberg) to recover a fortune amassed by Ferdinand Magellan and lost 500 years ago by the House of Moncada. What starts as a heist job for the duo becomes a globe-trotting, white-knuckle race to reach the prize before the ruthless Santiago Moncada (Antonio Banderas), who believes he and his family are the rightful heirs. If Nate and Sully can decipher the clues and solve one of the world’s oldest mysteries, they stand to find $5bn in treasure and perhaps even Nate’s long-lost brother…but only if they can learn to work together.For millions of PlayStation gamers, Nathan Drake and Victor “Sully” Sullivan are favourite characters whose stories they have lived out through their consoles in the Uncharted series of videogames. In Uncharted, moviegoers will see for the first time how the two joined forces and how a young Nathan Drake became the famed treasure hunter.The “Uncharted” games have connected with millions of players and sold more than 44 million copies over six games Director Ruben Fleischer (Venom, Zombieland) says it’s no secret why: “It plays like a movie, he says, and not just any movie – the kind they don’t make anymore. Uncharted truly captures all of the magic of what I love about film,” says Fleischer, who directed the film from a screenplay by Rafe Lee Judkins and Art Marcum and Matt Holloway, and a screen Story by Rafe Lee Judkins and Jon Hanley Rosenberg and Mark D. Walker, based on the PlayStation video game by Naughty Dog.“I’ve dreamed of making a treasure-hunting, globe-trotting adventure since I was a kid. That kind of movie gave me a passion for history and antiquity – I even went to college thinking I was going to be an archaeologist. As soon as I read this script, it captured that magical quality of escapist adventure. I couldn’t believe how lucky I was to be asked to be part of something special.”Read more here.SingleholicAn adventure in the spirit of Sex & the City and Girls Trip, Singleholic tells the story of a woman who moves to Mauritius to pursue her PhD after a painful breakup with her boyfriend. While there, she goes on a series of very funny dating encounters only to realise that the key to her happiness is to first be comfortable in her own skin.Sarah Wilcox (Erica Ash) moves to the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius to pursue her PhD after a painful breakup with her boyfriend. While there, despite her misgivings, she agrees to a series of disastrous and often very funny dating encounters that do little to convince her of the need to be in a relationship.  Perhaps being single has its own rewards.In the role, Sarah is an American actress, comedian, singer and model Erica Ash (Survivor’s Remorse). Vanessa Estelle Williams (New Jack City, Soul Food) plays Jackie and South African-American actress Jenna Saras (Momentum) is GeeGee.  It also stars Nigerian-American actor, musician, songwriter and model Olurotimi Akinosho,  Stephen Bishop,  Tyson Beckford and Adrian Martinez (Focus).It is based on the novel by the same name from English author Katherine Bing. Bryan Barber served as the director. Read more about the latest and upcoming films here.