Opening at 91 Bree Street in April 2022, diagonally opposite Heritage Square, ‘The Bailey’ will be a multi-level offering of welcoming spaces for those who are passionate about food, wine and good company. Image sourced: Liam Tomlin  Interesting heritage spaces are being designed here to create a gravitational pull to a mature and sophisticated crowd. The Bailey aims to appeal to those with a sense of style and an appreciation for quality; who have a taste for culinary classics, great wines, whiskeys and other premium beverages. Stellenbosch Craft Beer Festival returns1 day agoThree juxtaposed levels of offers are being created against a backdrop of beautiful interior design within a historical Cape Town city centre building, showcasing its classic lines, high ceilings, stunning flooring and floor-to-ceiling original wooden windows. On the ground level, the glamorous bakery café will feature a patisserie with fragrant teas and coffees, delicious cakes, macaroons, pastries and fresh juices. It will serve all-day breakfast, as well as brunch, lunch and classic cocktails, while the ‘ultimate’ High Tea will be introduced later in the year. Complete with a champagne bar, the stunning ground floor space of The Bailey is envisioned as the ideal meeting place in the heart of the city. The second floor will be presented as a classic brasserie, paying homage to grand European tradition with a menu of iconic dishes and superb wines. Service will be orchestrated by the maître d' holding the floor. The Plant Powered Show to take place in Cape Town in May17 Feb 2022The top floor has an open terrace and will be curated into a unique wine and whiskey bar, also offering a private wine and whiskey reserve for regular patrons. Tintswalo recognised with Conde Nast Traveler's 2021 Readers' Choice Awards7 Oct 2021 The Bailey is developing off the back of the success of the partners’ first joint venture - Chefs Warehouse Tintswalo Atlantic, which opened at the end of 2020. It was voted ‘Africa's Best New Restaurant’ in the 2021 World Culinary Awards and included in the coveted Condé Nast Traveller Readers Awards as one of the Best New Restaurants in the World.