Source: www.unsplash.comAfter two years of announcing the winners online, this year’s Radio Awards ceremony has moved later in the annual calendar to allow for the best chance to have an in-person, hybrid celebration, while keeping covid compliance top of mind. The gala dinner with limited physical attendance, while also being streamed live online will take place on 1 October 2022. Taryn Westoby, head of Arena Events - which owns The Radio Awards - says the programme is dedicated to fairness and integrity and is focused on being a credible, well-judged transparent programme that recognises exceptional and innovative excellence in South African radio, from in-front-of-the mic presenters to behind-the-scenes producers. “We are delighted to once again host the premier awards programme celebrating the country’s finest talent in radio broadcasting. Radio has played such an important part in keeping people informed and feeling connected during what has been an extremely hard time during the pandemic. Radio remains one of the most accessible platforms for engaging millions of South Africans,” says Westoby. The 2022 Radio Awards programmeThe Radio Awards programme for 2022 will include two online digital dialogues. The first dialogue will take place during the entry process and will focus on how to create award-winning entries with insights from past judges and winners. The second dialogue will take place after the awards ceremony, to showcase the insights and learnings from the 2022 winners. The fan favourite My Station competition is back – giving radio audiences the opportunity to vote for their number one South African radio station, with the chance to win a prize to the value of R40,000. DStv Mzansi Viewers' Choice Awards returns18 Feb 2022The Bursary Award is a proud initiative of the Radio Awards that aims to build future talent within the radio industry by providing a deserving individual with the right aptitude an opportunity to study further. The adjudication panelJudges for The Radio Awards are selected each year based on their relevant experience and expertise within radio, contributing countless hours of their time to review the station entries. In expanding the diversity of the panel, the organisers welcome suggestions for new judges. Nominations to the judging panel should be directed to Michelle Rodrigues at rodriguesm@arena.africaThe 2022 entry categories can be viewed online here. Entries close on 31 May 2022. Stay tuned for the latest updates and news on social media by following @SARadioAwards on Twitter and Facebook, using #SARadioAwards. Visit here for more information.