Frank Ostaseski, an internationally respected Buddhist teacher, visionary cofounder of the Zen Hospice Project and founder of the Metta Institute invites us to explore this further with his talk: Don’t Wait.Hosted by the Hospice Palliative Care Association, Ostaseski will virtually present his groundbreaking presentation on 8 March at 7pm. His focus – to teach us how to harness awareness of death in order to appreciate the fact that we are alive, and to outline an antidote to regret. As an individual that has accompanied over 1,000 people through the dying process, and trained thousands of healthcare clinicians and family caregivers around the world, Ostaseski believes that “in waiting for the next moment to arrive, we miss this one”. He urges us to self-explore, clarify our values, define meaning and generate positive interaction in this world.Tickets are R140, with every ticket purchased sponsoring a South African hospice team member to attend. Tickets are available via: https://www.quicket.co.za/events/163990-dont-wait-online-talk-with-frank-ostaseski/?fbclid=IwAR3a8ieyt_h57sVsclDoq0S5a1dY6EQUAteSDieYvjDopwQwjXC4XcRIzaU#/More about Frank OstateskiOstaseski's ground-breaking work has been featured on the Bill Moyers PBS series On Our Own Terms, highlighted on The Oprah Winfrey Show, and honored by H.H. the Dalai Lama. He is also the author of The Five Invitations: Discovering What Death Can Teach Us About Living Fully. Ostateski has lectured at Harvard Medical School, the Mayo Clinic, leading corporations like Google and Apple Inc. and teaches at major spiritual centres around the globe. He is the 2018 recipient of the prestigious Humanities Award from the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine.About the HPCAThe Hospice Palliative Care Association (HPCA) is a registered NPO in South Africa. Founded in 1987, the HPCA is a member organisation for South African hospices. As a national charity, the association champions and supports around 89 member organisations that provide hospice services to approximately 100,000 people per year. HPCA’s member hospices across South Africa care for patients with a variety of life-threatening diseases, predominantly in the comfort of their own homes.