Source: © MTN  MTNThe brand is an extension and visual representation of the Group’s refreshed strategy, dubbed Ambition 2025 and premised on Leading digital solutions for Africa’s progress. Through the delivery of this strategy, MTN aims to accelerate growth by building the largest and most valuable platform businesses and driving its industry leading connectivity operations.Modern, simple, old and digitally dynamic“Africa is a continent with enormous opportunity and energy,” says MTN Group president and CEO, Ralph Mupita. “We want to play our part in harnessing her potential and supporting her progress by driving digital and financial inclusion. “It is a well-known fact that the youth are central to achieving this potential. Whilst we remain focussed on all our customers and stakeholders, our brand evolution demonstrates an enhanced focus on the youth,” says Mupita.  The new brand identity is modern, simple, bold, and digitally dynamic. It kicks off with a provocative and simple question, “What are we doing today?” With a clear and concise brand strategy that Opportunity + Energy = Progress, MTN understands that to truly unlock the full benefits and potential of the digital world people require a combination of drive, progressive thinking, and the right tools.MTN to rebrand, reveals a new logo16 Feb 2022Africa is never stillThis rebrand highlights MTN’s commitment to continuously evolve and explore innovative initiatives that provide value to all its stakeholders. A pioneer of progress from the beginning, MTN looks to drive this progress further through action and doing. In delivering its vision, MTN aims to drive a positive shift in Africa and harness the continent’s boundless opportunity. “Africa is never still. True progress can only be realised by ‘doing’,” says Bernice Samuels, MTN group executive for Marketing. “It is off this insight that we launch our new positioning by challenging, celebrating and providing tools for doers because when individuals, communities and countries progress, so too does Africa.”About Ambition 2025Approved by the Board of Directors in November 2020, Ambition 2025 aims to drive accelerated growth and faster deleveraging, positioning MTN for greater relevance ahead. The strategy supports the socioeconomic progress of Africa and will help MTN reveal and crystallise the value that is inherent in the Group, particularly its infrastructure assets and platform businesses namely fintech solutions; digital services; enterprise services; network as a service; and API marketplace.