Several of Salt’s top clients, such as Facebook, IBM, Google, Microsoft and NTT, to name a few, have established bases in Johannesburg. So to bring value to client relationships, Salt wanted to have a local footprint to support their local recruitment requirements. Johannesburg is also the biggest city in South Africa and a major economic hub. The specialist recruitment team has grown in numbers since the office opening in 2021 to enable support and service delivery across all areas of recruitment, whether permanent or contractual placements.Salt’s teams are specialists in every aspect of digital recruitment. They work collaboratively with clients to ensure that they can achieve their vision. Salt not only partner with their clients to place the best individual talent but also create some of the most exciting digital teams globally. There are a number of contract types that they offer ranging from permanent positions to freelancers, often providing a mix of candidates based on the employer’s needs. Diversity is at the forefront of Salt and is paramount in everything done.Alex Martin, MD Salt South Africa adds: “The office is located in what is known as the 'fastest-developing commercial and residential hub in northern Sandton...'" With our focus on scale-ups, start-ups and new digital products, we will feel the pulse of digital development and transformation.There are three main areas that Salt covers: employers, candidates and of course, building our internal employee base. For employers, they help source the best talent from their pool of candidates. They can place any post from an entry-level position to the executive level. With candidates, they help find the best fit for their skills and personality, focusing on the individual’s unique requests, location, and career prospects to narrow down the most ideal placement. Salt prides itself on their talented team of recruitment consultants and we are always on the lookout for new talent. Our training, benefits and opportunities to travel abroad is all part of building not only a great business, but a great team.Please get in touch with our specialist team should you have any recruitment needs which we can support with. Click here for the contact details.