Source: Suppliedclick to enlargeSix judges from South Africa have joined the panel this year including:• Lucy Corne, beer writer and editor • Joyce Denson, brewer• Randolf Jorberg, head dreamer at Beerhouse• Apiwe Nxusani-Mawela, brewmaster• Alexander Moss, co-founder and director of Big Sip Company• Grant Payne, photographerOther well-known judges who have returned or joined include Ralph Steadman, David Carson, Zane Lamprey, Jon Contino, Matt Furman, Megan Stone, and Keith Villa, among others.The CBMAS is now in its third season. Founded in 2019, this is the only global awards competition to recognise and celebrate the importance of craft beer marketing and design as a key to success in this highly competitive marketplace. Due to the recent Covid Omicron surge, the CBMAS has extended the 2022 awards season entry deadline to 14 March 2022. Entries are open to anyone involved in marketing within the brewing industry around the world – including cider, hard seltzer, mead, and brewery-produced RTD cocktails. Breweries, their agencies, artists and marketing partners are all invited to enter their top work.According to the organisers, many design companies and agencies are taking notice and submitting their work, underscoring the CBMAS’ focus on the growing importance of creative art and design in packaging and brand building as marketing tactics for brewers to stand out in today’s ever-growing marketplace. #WomensMonth: Brewing a bright future in craft beerBy Lauren Hartzenberg 31 Aug 2021The CrushiesThe 2022 CBMAS boasts over 40 categories covering all aspects of brew marketing – from labels to logos and tap handles to taprooms. New categories have been added by popular demand, and returning this year are 'Sustainability – Environmental Awareness' and 'Human Rights'. Entries are divided up into 5 regions across the globe: The AmericasUnited KingdomEuropeAPAC – Asia and Pacific (including Australia and New Zealand)MENA – Middle East, Africa & Beyond  Winners in each category are awarded a CBMAS Crushie Award. Winners can upgrade their win with a Crushie Trophy designed by the same prestigious Manhattan-based awards company that creates the Emmy, Golden Globes and the MTV Moonman. Source: SuppliedPlatinum and Gold Crushies will be awarded to winners in each region. Global Crushies will be awarded to winners who opt-in to be judged at a global level in addition to their regional entry. The CBMAS’ judging process is a robust and transparent digital scoring system that is ranked by an influential and respected worldwide panel of more than 500 beer, marketing, and design experts. The CBMAS’ presenting sponsor – for the third year in a row – is global beverage logistics company Hillebrand.The awards celebration will take place during the week of the 2022 Craft Brewers Conference in May in Minneapolis, United States. For more information on the awards categories, criteria and judging panel, visit craftbeermarketingawards.com.