In partnership with SABC2 and in association with the Department of Arts and Culture, JICF is set to deliver some desperately needed laughs this year, offering some much needed comedic relief during yet another pandemic year.Image supplied: Jason GoliathJICF will roll out its sixth edition with over 30 local, continental and international comedians taking over the Maslow Hotel in Sandton and the Theatre on The Square from Thursday, 24 March to Tuesday, 29 March. This marks the festival’s debut showing in Sandton since its inception in 2015.  This year’s much-anticipated JICF line-up includes the likes of Jason Goliath, Mpho Popps, Tats Nkonzo, Conrad Koch, Robby Collins, Suhayl Essa, Tracey-Lee Oliver, Isabella Jane, Loyiso Madinga, KG Mokgadi, Ndumiso Lindi, Thabiso Mhlongo, Kate Pinchuck, Chris Forrest, Bash with Tash, Rob van Vuuren and Carvin Goldstone - to name just a few.All the details for The Cape Town Seafood and Jazz Racing Festival1 day agoContinental acts confirmed thus far are African giants Salvado (Uganda), Q Dube (Zimbabwe) and Akau Jambo (Sudan) who are set to impress Johannesburg audiences with their unique Afrocentric style of comedy. Over the next few weeks, more shows and talent will be added to the festival offering.  With strict adherence to all Covid protocols, the event will still deliver on the big laughs with this impressive line-up of comedy talent. This unique comedy showcase will also involve panel discussions, podcasts, behind the scenes digital content, photo ops and after-show drinks – all of which fans can partake in throughout the six-day laughter and entertaining experience. The age restriction for all comedy shows is 18 years old. “Given the times, we are beyond excited to be hosting our next edition of JICF!” says Takunda Bimha, founder and director of JICF. “The overwhelming response to our mini-festival property Covid Relief, staged late last year, served to confirm that Joburg is ready to embrace live comedy again and laugh the pandemic blues away (if only for a few nights). The comedy gods have blessed us with yet another mouth-watering lineup of local and foreign comedy talent to showcase in what will be our first festival showing in Sandton. Good times are loading up ahead!”Tickets are limited, and they can be booked here. For more information on the various showtimes, line-ups and comedians, you can also go here. Tickets can be booked directly here.