Dave Duarte will take us on a journey of digital advocacy, movement marketing, online engagement strategy, community growth and conversational momentum.Tune in and learn how online connections drive results, and how being more intentional about your digital community building will lead to brand breakthroughs.Why attend V5 Africa now?2022 is the year of data. Crafting a data-driven strategy is critical for carving out your competitive advantage. Throughout the V5 Africa webinar series, you will learn how to use data for the success of your business. Be a part of enriching talks from distinguished African and global speakers about digital topics including social media, the latest on chatbots, email marketing and CRM, and data. Come and connect at the webinar series that uses data and digital to connect Namibia to Africa, and Africa to the world.Why we believe you can benefit?Meet inspiring speakers and experts throughout the V5 Africa webinar series. This is the premier event for leaders and owners in medium to corporate-sized companies who are looking to grow digitally. Sounds like you? The series’ focused approach ensures you will learn from experts exactly what you need to know about the latest digital tools and trends.Time16 February 2022 at 12h00 noon (GMT+2)Dave DuarteV5 Africa keynote speaker - Author, marketer and entrepreneurAs founder of Treeshake, he helps build virtual communities to drive action on issues ranging from protecting the oceans to adopting renewables. This work reaches millions of people each year, and has received accolades from the United Nations among others.He serves as chairman of the Reach Trust, a non-profit that develops and manages mobile apps used by millions of South Africans to improve their literacy, numeracy, and employability. He is also a voting member of the academy of the Global Teacher Prize.Previously he was programme director at the University of Cape Town’s Graduate School of Business; headed up Creative Commons South Africa; founded and led the Ogilvy Digital Marketing Academy; and served on the board of the Mail & Guardian.Armin WielandV5 Africa host/founder at V5 DigitalArmin is an experienced digital marketer with a demonstrated history of working across industry verticals. He is passionate about the disruptive opportunities offered by digital transformation and the customer centricity possibilities of marketing automation. He is exceptionally proud of the growing number of customer trailblazers utilising the services and expertise of V5 Digital. He likes to spend his free time farming, teaching his German Shepherd Gulivier new tricks and travelling internationally – especially to Dreamforce. Armin actually loves to kitesurf – although he keeps falling off his board.Nico BarandongaDigital marketer and content strategistNico Barandonga is a digital marketer and content strategist that has worked with some of Namibia’s most loved brands. He has more than five years working experience in the advertising, marketing, events and entertainment industry.He is passionate about linking both the creative and analytical side of marketing to create an impact in campaigns.In his free time he enjoys lip-sync battling himself in the mirror pretending to be 50 Cent (without the muscles of course).Tell me more!