Previously general manager of dentsu SA’s multi-award-winning creative agency, Fiebiger joined the FoxP2 Cape Town business in 2012 as business unit director before joining the Johannesburg (start-up) office in 2013. Three years later she was appointed as head of account management where she onboarded, retained and developed of a number of FoxP2 clients, brands and employees for a period of four years before being appointed as the general manager in 2019. Lynda Fiebiger, managing director of FoxP2During her decade of FoxP2 experience, Lynda has worked with a large variety of brands spanning across entertainment, food, automotive and retail as well as the banking and insurance industry. She has also played an instrumental role in the repositioning and growth of key FoxP2 clients and carries a deep understanding of the FoxP2 brand, team and capabilities. Lynda was a key player in the award-winning 1st for Women “16 Days of Light” campaign which not only won a Gold and Grand Prix Loerie but was also nominated as a Cannes Glass Lion finalist. Commenting on her appointment, Fiebiger said: “I am extremely honoured and excited to be appointed into this role and look so forward to working with my team in developing the FoxP2 brand and our client’s business’ even further.” With over 20 years agency experience under her belt, Lynda’s responsibilities will include the development of the FoxP2 business as well as ensuring a clear positioning, brand, product and culture for Foxp2 to establish a coherent business within the South African market.“It has been my absolute privilege to work with Lynda for a decade at FoxP2. She is supremely talented, unwaveringly committed, and with her unquestionable integrity she co-created and embodies the very principles and ethos on which FoxP2 was founded and built. "There could be no person more suitable or deserving to take up the crucially important leadership role as FoxP2’s managing director in 2022. As a partner and shareholder, it fills me with pride, confidence and excitement to know that Lynda will be leading our business in this senior leadership capacity over the coming years.” – Charl Thom, commercial director at FoxP2.