The Rand Show has been an important annual fixture in Johannesburg for 128 years. And the show has now evolved to entertain 21st-century audiences with an eclectic mix of music, shopping, family entertainment and adrenaline-fuelled rides. Returning visitors to Rand Show 2022 can expect to find their old favourites like the ever-present carnival rides, helicopter flipping, exhibitors from a variety of retailers and food. But there are a few new attractions that have been added to the programme too.As the world begins its return to live events, by popular demand, Rand Show Live Music Concerts kicks off with a music festival from Friday 15 April to Monday 18 April, showcasing the best local artists, with two A-list artists per day in the Main Arena. The list of world-class performers will be announced on 24 February, and fans of great South African music can look forward to a few surprise appearances by top names.Tickets to the music festival can be purchased online. Music festival tickets also entitle ticketholders to free entry into the Rand Show. And multiple options for music festival bookings are available, including VIP hospitality suites with a better view of the stage.For anyone with travel envy following lockdown restrictions, Rand Show 2022 will also be launching its first-ever Travel Experience. This first-of-its-kind exhibition space will showcase a variety of renowned landmarks from all over the world, built at almost life-scale by experienced sculptors. Ticketholders will be able to experience international cities they have dreamed of visiting and take in attractions like the Great Pyramids of Giza, the idyllic shores of Mauritius and a choice of inspiring natural attractions.Foodies and reality show buffs will be coming together for the Jacaranda Clash of Kitchens – a cooking challenge open to teams of two with major prize money up for grabs and celebrity chefs choosing their top local cooks. Teams will be judged on creativity, taste and presentation. And mentor judges will be on hand to provide guidance and feedback.Petrolheads can gear up for advanced driving, drifting and exclusive launches while fashion connoisseurs browse designer gear. For the kids, there will be a variety of all-day entertainment on offer, and in Hall 9, public service and government agencies will be on-hand to answer any pressing questions about service delivery and enlisting in the SANDF, among other things. With new management at its helm, Rand Show 2022 is a fresh take on an old South African favourite and the ideal antidote to COVID lockdown fatigue. To buy tickets, visit www.randshow.co.za.