The most pertinent and precedent-setting case law and judgments will be covered in five preliminary videos issued prior to the webinar along with a complimentary workbook. Areas covered will include dismissal, discrimination, handling cases in the CCMA and the effect of Covid-19 on employers and employees.The webinar will be devoted mainly to discussion on these and other topics and issues of concern to those attending. Questions and responses will be invited from participants and lively debate can be expected.PACKAGE 1LIVE WEBINAR & VIDEO SHOWCASE  Tuesday, 7 June 2022 Time: 09:00 – 13:15PACKAGE 2INTERACTIVE MULTIMEDIA EPUB  Delivery: August 2022 Entire webinar package in one e-publication Video showcase, issued prior to the webinar. Engage with the content at your own pace.Half-day webinarTest the Team: Interactive Q&A Hour  Full text of Juta’s Annual Labour Law Update workbook 2022, searchable and hyperlinked for easy navigationIntegrated Video Showcase and recording of the live webinarQuestions with pop-up answersGlossary of important termsAccessible off and online, ideal for those who have difficulty attending webinars Unrivalled reference material Juta’s Annual Labour Law Update 2022, in a choice of print or Interactive Multimedia ePub format. The workbook covers all topics highlighted during the webinar, and features useful section breakdowns: case law, legislation, commentary and an overview of key cases. Free 1-year subscription to Legalbrief Workplace worth almost R2,000.Have your burning questions answered Submit your questions to our panel prior to the live session* Live interactive question & answer panel discussions* Consolidated Q&A PDF of all delegates’ questions*Your learning efforts recognised Earn up SABPP CPD points* Juta certificate of attendance**Package one only. About the speakers:Dr John Grogan BA (Hons) (Rhodes), BIuris LLB (SA), LLM PhD (Rhodes)John Grogan is one of the most respected writers on labour law in South Africa having authored five leading labour law texts, Workplace Law; Employment Rights; Dismissal; Collective LabourLaw and Labour Litigation and Dispute Resolution (Juta). Dr Grogan has been involved in the practice and teaching of labour law for more than 25 years. He left his position as head of the Department of Law at Rhodes University for private practice in 1997. Apart from practicing in the labour courts, Dr Grogan conducts private arbitrations and continues to publish and lecture. He also edits a number of leading publications, including Employment Law. He has been a part-time Senior Commissioner of the CCMA, a panellist on a number of bargaining councils, and has acted as a Judge in both the Labour and High Courts.Puke MaserumuleBA LLB (UCT), Post Graduate Diploma in Labour Law (UJ)Puke Maserumule is a Director at Maserumule Attorneys and Maserumule Consulting. He has acted as a Labour Court Judge periodically since 1997 and has also acted as a High Court Judge. In his capacity as Acting Judge of the Labour Court, he has been involved in interpreting labour legislation and building the new labour jurisprudence. He is also a member of the legal team that drafted amendments to the Labour Relations Act and Basic Conditions of Employment Act. He is an accredited mediator and arbitrator at Tokiso Dispute Settlement.Dr Halton CheadleBA (Honours), BProc (UNISA), LLB (Wits)Halton Cheadle is an attorney and an Emeritus Professor of Public Law at the University of Cape Town, with 40 years’ experience. He has participated in the drafting of the Bill of Rights in the final Constitution, various labour statutes including the Labour Relations Act, 1995, and most recently the Minimum Wage Act, amendments to the LRA, Codes of Good Practice: Collective Bargaining, Industrial Action and Picketing and the Accord on Collective Bargaining & Industrial Action. He is the author and editor of various leading books and journal articles on labour law and constitutional law. He has also been an acting judge in the High Court and the Labour Court and is an experienced arbitrator. Halton is the only South African to be appointed to the ILO Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations (CEACR), International Labour Organisation, Geneva.Click here for more information.