Chris BrewerSource: www.facebook.com/AMASAJoburg Chris Brewer joined the ad industry in London, and spent most of his career in media analysis and planning - but performed just about every advertising task from creative to research.Brewer’s Droop started as a letter that Brewer penned using a fountain pen and mailed via post to his existing and potential clients when he owned an advertising agency. In the beginning, there were about 80 letters, all signed individually, but this number soon rose to 200. The first Brewers Droop by email was sent on 3 June 1997. Over the years the content shifted from advertising and marketing industries and more about life in general. Brewer called it "a kind of Grumpy Old Man’s Diary". It has been quoted in The Times of India (Delhi) and discussed in parliament and radio.He is an honorary lifetime member of the Advertising Media Association of South Africa (AMASA) and regularly advised agencies and clients regarding their media plan costs and strategies. An adman through and throughTracey Baard, a long time friend of Brewer's, who worked extensively and for many years with him, told Bizcommunity that Brewer was an adman through and through. "He loved the ad industry, and he was passionate about stats, figures and a good pie chart. He was an incredible writer. His popular Brewers’ Droop was always a highlight in many inboxes."She adds: "I will never forget his sense of humour - dry and unmistakably English. Very English. Most of all, he was a family man. He loved his wife Michele dearly and deeply. His boys were his pride and joy.My heartfelt condolences to them. "He was many things, to many people. I am deeply saddened by the news of his passing. South Africa and the industry has lost a good one."Brewer often spoke at industry functions and contributed to media platforms, including Bizcommunity.com.Those who have been in the SA advertising industry for a while will remember Chris Brewer and his sharply entertaining newsletter Brewer’s Droop. Sadly Chris had been ill and passed away this morning. Condolences to his family and friends. (cc @Bizcommunity)— System Of A Lockdown (@AmandaSevasti) February 3, 2022