I bet they’ve all embraced remote working, and the better work-life balance it gives them.Here’s another question: how has the pandemic changed the way your agency manages its work?You’ve probably adopted a messaging platform like Slack or Teams, maybe got more rigorous with scheduling and project management. Not to mention document sharing and version control upgrades.And here’s my last question: how many new pieces of technology have you introduced, and are they all siloed, or have you managed to integrate them?We’ve been posting a series of articles for agency leaders, and this month we’re looking at the technology that enables greater efficiency and visibility across the agency.Investigating the best agency management tools Change is never easy - and people generally don’t like changing up their tech - but taking the time to think holistically about the technology your agency uses can make a huge difference.Here are some of the technology most agencies have in place:  Sales, marketing and pipeline management  Resource management  Project management  Collaboration and teamwork  Document and file sharing  Proofing and approvals processes  Finance and accounting Assuming your agency has all of these tools, you’re managing (and paying for) at least eight different pieces of software. That’s a lot of technology to keep track of! Considering end-to-end agency management tools Keeping everything together and creating process workflows that run from the very start of a relationship with a new client and throughout their lifecycle could be a game changer for your agency. In fact, many agencies “upgrade” their technology when they get serious about growth.Did you know there’s a category of software especially designed to help agency owners and managers run their companies more efficiently? They include modules for everything from proposal-stage, to project management and time-tracking, and all the way to reporting and invoicing. They connect everything, ensure nothing falls through the cracks, and provide total visibility into every sale, project and process. Not sure which agency management tools are best for you? If you’re ready to conduct an audit of your agency’s technology and want to introduce the best tech, then you might find our buyer’s guide useful. It’ll help you work out what your agency needs and how to compare vendors.[Get the guide here] Learn more about Silversoft’s agency management software Our agency management software is trusted by growing agencies around the world. You can learn more about them here: https://silversoft.co.uk/solutions/.