Image supplied: The Magic Key will take place at Artscape in JuneThe whole family is invited to join South Africa’s ‘Hogwarts’, famous for creating astonishing family experiences and intriguing worlds of mystery, magic and illusion over its 40-year history. The Magic Key follows Ntombi, the show’s leading young lady, on a quest to find her little sister. Here she faces a hallway of doors and must find the “right key, for the right door”, the Magic Key. Along the way, she encounters the most incredible never-before-seen illusions as a group of unexpected characters entertain, delight and inspire. The role of Ntombi will be played by 14-year-old College of Magic student Nakhane Ntame. Ntame who has been training in various performance art forms such as mime, clowning and drama since the beginning of 2021 is eager to step into the spotlight.  “I am so excited to share the stage with my fellow students and to just bring some magical fun to Cape Town audiences. We at The College of Magic have worked hard to make this show as spectacular as ever and we can’t wait to bring it to life,” she says. Hailing from Blue Downs, Ntame will be sharing the stage with a host of other students following in the footsteps of College of Magic alumni, like board member Stuart Taylor.  Taylor is probably best known to South Africans as a magician and comedian, as well as the presenter of SABC 3’s travel show, Going Nowhere Slowly. But when this Stellenbosch University science graduate is not in front of the camera, he is enchanting local and international audiences with his headline, stand-up comedy and magic shows. Kunene and the King premieres at Joburg Theatre1 day ago“I started my career in the entertainment industry through the pursuit of magic, hoping to make it big in SA. To be able to see young and new talented magicians take to the stage and share their passion for the craft, is always a great thrill for me,” says Taylor. The Magic Key will be directed by Chad Findlay, current artistic director at the College of Magic. “The experience starts from the moment you arrive at the theatre with special performances, photo opportunities and other 'happenings' taking place in the foyer before the show and during the interval. The Magic Key is sure to have young and old applauding loudly and believing in magic once again,” says Findlay. The show will take place from 1-4 June. Tickets can be purchased via Computicket online or via Checkers and Shoprite retail stores, countrywide, from R149 and R165. All Covid regulations will be strictly adhered to.