KZN will wake up to some inspiration and motivation by Dj Vumar on Sunrise Sessions (4am–6am), followed by the popular comedian, Felix Hlophe and Njabs Zwane on The Uprising (6am–9am). Khaya Dladla will join Heazy and Zisto on the station’s new afternoon drive show Gagasi FM Drive (3–6pm). Khulekani ‘Daddy Khulz’ Mbambo will now be joined by the SA radio award winner Clarissa Mfeka on The Hangout (9am–12pm). New to daytime is “iRadio imnandi ebsuku” Dj Sonic who will be anchoring The Midday Connexion (12pm–3pm) with Flymotion as his co-host. Simtho Dladla and Mike Makaab  remain on Extra Time Monday and Friday 6pm–7pm with seasoned broadcaster Alex Mthiyane  to continue hosting his award-winning Indaba.Further to this line-up, Gagasi FM listeners can now expect traffic reports throughout the day. “Our audience has consistently shown a pertinent need to be informed about traffic even outside the two prime time shows. This is further attestation to changing listening trends to which we have responded by increasing the info-combo throughout the day comprising of news, traffic and sports at the top of the hour. Such will also be extended to our digital channels as our response to this growing demand,” said Alex Mthiyane, head of Audience Experience of Gagasi FM.It is clear from Gagasi FM’s new line-up that the station is obsessed with grooming and retaining talent. “#WeGoTalent is part of our vision as a station. We want to not only  discover new talent, but also give known KZN talent an opportunity to grow on radio and hopefully grow or move onto bigger platforms. The key is to shine a light on the talent that KZN has,” said Minenhle Dlamini, managing director of Gagasi FM.True to the vision of unearthing KZN’s talent, Gagasi FM will be adding YouTube’s 'Drive Usakaza' content creator Sizwe Sibisi and Penny Ntuli, aka ‘Mawabafana’ who has received over 180,000 views on her For Gagasi FM to add me to their Line Up Facebook post. The new line-up comes after almost a year since Dlamini took over as the station’s MD which also saw a realignment of operations internally. “It has been an amazing journey since the changes were implemented almost a year ago. Even the process of putting together the new line-up was largely informed by where we are as a business and the offering we need to deliver to both our audience and advertisers,” concluded Dlamini.The station will soon embark on  a  roadshow  throughout KZN taking the new shows to listeners. Stay tuned to Gagasi FM and follow the station’s digital platforms for more information.Facebook: GagasiWorld  |  Twitter: @GagasiFM  |  Instagram: @gagasifm