The festival recognises numerous forms and aspects of short films, including narrative fiction, comedy, passion projects, commercials, branded content, music videos, spec work, animation, sound design, movie poster design, title sequences and more.   The mission of the programme — which typically receives entries from upwards of 45 countries — is to celebrate filmmakers working in both the film and ad industries, with no limitation and total artistic freedom, all on one screen.     SA scores 15 finalists in One Show Awards 202226 Apr 2022The global call for entries for One Screen 2022 is now open for work released online or offline between 1 January 2020 and 30 April 2022.  The tiered pricing structure based on entry deadlines is as follows: $60 for entries received by the 6 June early deadline, $75 for the 8 July regular deadline, and $90 for the extended deadline of 5 August. Entries are judged by a jury of leading film directors, producers, ad agency creatives and heads of production companies, to be announced shortly.  Winners will be unveiled at the One Screen Short Film Festival and screening later this year. Past One Screen winners also include Oscar-winning director Laurent Witz, as well as Martín Rosete, director of award-winning feature film Money, whose producer first connected with him at the One Screen awards ceremony in 2014. 101st ADC finalists announced28 Apr 2022"One Screen has grown in stature to the point of attracting Oscar winners from around the world as both entrants and judges,” said Kevin Swanepoel, CEO of The One Club.  “At the same time, we are dedicated to recognising great work from all sorts of entrants, be they large or small ad agencies and production companies, independent directors, sound designers, movie poster graphic designers and others involved in film. One Screen is a home for the projects of accomplished filmmakers, as well as a proving ground for promising young talent.” Visit the One Screen entry site to view categories and submission requirements.