Rwazi’s platform provides companies with offline, actionable data from developing markets on who is buying what, for how much, from where, when, and why, to help them drive revenue and expand. They utilise a network of qualified data collectors, called mappers, who have smartphones to gather information. Their network of mappers has grown to over 20,000 since the start of Rwazi, and they are situated all over Africa, and in parts of South Asia as well as South America. Clients use this data in a myriad of ways.Commerce trends and growth through traditional retail outlets are reassessed by Rwazi’s mappers as they go through both availability and pricing – both of which are key factors that retailers and those in the commercial sector place great importance on. Other industries that can benefit from Rwazi’s on-ground network of mappers include the healthcare and education sectors which can help tailor specific services to the demands and needs of certain communities. It also gives the authorities a good idea of their budget and what kind of treatment or education plans to offer because these are two industries that are essential to a healthy country and will always be required by communities all over the world. Aside from that, industries such as automotive, finance, agriculture, and even telecommunications can make use of the data available to price their products as well as encourage healthy competition. An industry that lacks competition is an industry that will never grow, which is why data is so important to the betterment of humanity as a whole.Rwazi has started expanding by onboarding mappers in Asian countries such as India and Indonesia to help customers leverage their technology and network access difficult-to-get data from more locations. The company has recruited over 3,000 new mappers in the last month alone and that number is set to grow. Positioned as one of the first companies in the world to provide these services, they have the kind of experience and hands-on know-how that other data collecting companies lack when trying to acquire data from developing markets. From consumer behaviour to the approaches they employ, the brainchild of Rutakangwa has been proven to be an innovative pioneer. “We are the only company that offers access to offline data from over twenty thousand mappers across forty African countries and we have done that with great success. Certain companies target specific demographics in developed economies, but Rwazi focuses on all consumers, including emerging consumers, in developing markets because this is where growth is happening.” The founder was quoted as saying in regards to his startup which has since taken flight. Most recently, Rwazi has started mapping L'Oréal products in Colombia to offer them the insights they need to expand their footprint in that market.