Image credit: Naresh MaharajIt’s about characterThe Mokka displays great strength of character defined by short overhangs and a wide stance. From the front, the most striking element is the Opel Vizor, with its unmistakable design, which is a protective strip that covers the new front face of the Opel, combining in a single element the grille, the LED headlights and the new logo with the Opel lightning bolt. Image credit: Naresh MaharajImage credit: Naresh MaharajImage credit: Naresh MaharajDigital detoxAll instrumentation is digitalised. The structure is clear and understandable at a glance. Opel designers have placed great emphasis on a digital detox. In order to avoid distracting the driver, they have ensured that the system works intuitively. The buttons still control the most important functions without having to navigate through menus, which I have to add is a huge plus.The headlamps of the new Mokka feature Opel’s iconic ‘wing’ design and are modern and elegant in their appearance. Eco LED are headlamps standard on the Elegance model, while the GS Line offers the Full-LED Matrix headlamps. Powertrain: an ideal balance between sobriety and performanceThe Opel Mokka’s award-winning petrol engine is both lively and economical, offering high efficiency and good dynamic performance. The 1.2l turbocharged petrol engine delivers 96kW at 5,500 r/min and thanks to low internal friction and responsive turbo technology, allows the delivery of high torque at low revs. Despite its power, this all-aluminium engine with an eight-speed automatic gearbox with particularly smooth shifts offers impressive fuel consumption of 5.3- and 6.1 l/100km on the urban and out of town routes. The new Mokka is up to 120kg lighter than the previous generation and is with obvious benefits, lesser fuel consumption, more responsive, agile and importantly, fun to drive.Driving aidsThe new Mokka continues the Opel tradition of bringing the innovative technologies that until recently were only available in the luxury car class to a wide range of buyers. Forward collision warning with automatic emergency braking and pedestrian detection on GS Line models work at speeds above 5km/h. When the Mokka approaches a vehicle or pedestrian too quickly, the system emits a warning signal and displays a message in the driver information centre. If a collision is imminent, the braking system is prepared and, if necessary, emergency braking is initiated to minimise the effects of a potential collision. Safe my mate!Adaptive cruise control maintains a set safe distance between the new Mokka and the vehicle in front, using radar sensors and cameras. It works between 30km/h and 180km/h. Vehicle speed increases or decreases to follow the vehicle in front, but never exceeds the set speed. With an automatic transmission, the system offers an additional stop and go function. It is thus able to brake the car to a standstill and follow the vehicle in front in traffic jams.Excellent craftsmanship on seating systems is a recognised quality at Opel. With a driver's seat adjustable on six axes as standard, and full leather upholstery available from the GS Line version to give a sporty side to the Mokka.The new range of infotainment systems ensures perfect connectivity to inform or entertain the driver and passengers of the Mokka. Bluetooth, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto makes the drive that much better. Peace of mindStandard three-year/120,000km warranty and roadside assistance. Service intervals are every 12 months or 15,000km but are covered by the Mokka’s four-year/60,000km service plan.Opel Mokka 1.2T Elegance - R469,900Opel Mokka 1.2T GS Line - R519,900