Image supplied: Work by Fhatuwani Mukheli “Artists can draw, but mostly drawing is a means to an end, and seldom the end product in itself. We thought we would have fun asking some of our favourite artists to use the humble art of drawing as a starting point in creating some interesting new work. We are really looking forward to seeing what they come up with!” said curator, Jane Digby. “We want to look at the line, not just technique, texture and colour. Our focus is old school line drawing as a counterpoint to our high-tech digital complex world, hence the playful challenge in the title, Online / Off,” Digby said. “And we aren’t being prescriptive about it either, so line drawings will be part of the whole, but we anticipate artists taking the brief quite loosely which could be really interesting. We are looking forward to seeing what they come up with!” Image supplied: Work by Daryl Houghton A wide range of artists have been invited to participate, representing various genres of the art-making community. Some participants to look out for include: Members of the Garret Group of Artists, who haven’t exhibited on the north coast before and are regaining momentum after a lockdown hiatus. Hilton Arts Festival and Art in the Park regular wildlife artist Vincent Reid from Pietermaritzburg will also participate alongside 1000 Hills artist Lauriane Glenny who works with liquid charcoals; well-travelled brothers Justice and Fhatuwani Mukheli who typically work in mixed media including film and Sharleen Boaden who captures fleeting moments with a feminine touch often using charcoals. Image supplied: Work by Lesley Magwood Fraser Also on the bill are Anne Schwankhart whose wonderful whimsical drawings favour abstract which speaks to the soul; Hilary Grant Currie has an affinity for trees and works mostly in charcoal; Chris Khoury, an artist and teacher with a graphic arts background, known for his soft touch and affinity to African nature and Bheki Ntshali from Midlands is with Ardmore and favours symbolic and story-based themes in his work. Brenda Kuhn is a local artist and ceramicist who has invited her group to participate with her; Wandile Ntlangoniso is an award-winning East London artist working in linocut prints onto hand-made paper; Daryl Houghton plays with contemporary interpretations of naïve line drawings often with splashes of colour, and Lesley Magwood Fraser’s work is brooding in its simplicity favouring monochromatic stark images in charcoal. Online / Off opens on 5 May and runs until 29 May. For more information, go here.